# Manhattan Access Management 2.0 User Guide

**Permalink:** access-management-2-user-guide
**Content Length:** 14,320 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:39:43.948534

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Administrator Tools ››Manhattan Access Management 2.0 User Guide Manhattan Access&nbsp;2.0&nbsp;User Guide &nbsp; &nbsp; Manhattan Access&nbsp;2.0&nbsp;User GuideIntroductionNative DB User LoginLogoutSet PasswordForgot PasswordPassword ExpiryChange PasswordCustomer IdP Authentication & AuthorizationUsing Postman Introduction Manhattan Access Management&nbsp;2.0 is the upgraded version of Manhattan Active&reg; Platform&rsquo;s Identity Management for Manhattan Active Supply Chain,&nbsp;Manhattan Active Omni,&nbsp;and Manhattan Active Allocation. It comes with better security features, multiple identity provider support, and configurable options for a variety of IDP protocols. This user guide demonstrates the method of authentication in the application for both native DB and Identity Provider users. &nbsp; Native DB User Login Step 1:&nbsp;Navigate to the Active&reg; Stack URL you wish to log in to. The look and feel may look different based on the product - Manhattan Active Warehouse Management has a different look and feel than Manhattan Active Omni. All login screens, however, will have the following: Native DB Authentication Username text box Password text box Login Button Customer IdP Logins Customers may create multiple Identity Providers (IdP). For each IdP option, there will be a button present with clearly labeled text. The text literal is customizable for the IdP. Manhattan IdP Login Manhattan support users (PSO, CSO) should use the Manhattan IdP domain to authenticate into customer environments. Step 2: Enter your username and password When the correct username and password combination are entered, the system logs the user in and redirects them to the application home page. &nbsp; Username and Password Entry If the username or password is incorrect, the system displays the error message, &ldquo;Invalid username or password&rdquo;. The system will not specify if the username, password, or both are incorrect due to security best practices. &nbsp; Brute Force Protection When the system detects the number of failed login attempts for a user exceeds the configured number, the system will lock the related user from logging in and display the error message &ldquo;Invalid username or password&rdquo;. &nbsp; Manhattan domain (@manh.com) Usernames Users with a username ending in @manh.com will be blocked from logging in using a native DB password and must instead use the Manhattan Support IDP option. &nbsp; Logout Step 1: Click the profile icon, open the menu, and select &ldquo;Sign out&rdquo;. The system displays the option to logout.&nbsp; &nbsp; Step 2: The system displays a sign-out confirmation. Select &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; to continue signing out. The system directs the user to the initial login screen. &nbsp; Set Password When a native DB user is created in the system, the user must set their password for the first time. The system sends the user an email with a link to set the password.&nbsp; &nbsp; Step 1: Click the &ldquo;Set Password Link&rdquo;. The user will be taken to the Password Management Panel to configure their password for the first time. &nbsp; Step 2: Enter the username and click &ldquo;Submit&rdquo; When the correct username is entered, the system will take you to the &ldquo;New Password&rdquo; screen to enter your new password. &nbsp; Step 3: Enter a valid password which meets all complexity requirements. When the password does not meet the complexity requirements, the system displays an error message instructing the user that the password must comply with the policy.&nbsp; When the &ldquo;New Password&rdquo; and &ldquo;Confirm Password&rdquo; fields do not match, the system displays the error message &quot;Passwords do not match&quot;. When the passwords match and meet the complexity requirements, the system will redirect the user to the home screen of the respective application. &nbsp; Forgot Password When a native DB user must reset their password, use the &ldquo;Forgot Password&rdquo; function. IdP users may not reset their passwords using this method. &nbsp; Step 1: Select the &ldquo;Forgot Password&rdquo; button The system displays the Password Management Panel. &nbsp; Step 2: Enter the username or email associated with the account you wish to reset the password for. The system sends an email to the user with a link to reset the password. &nbsp; Step 3: Click the &ldquo;Reset Link&rdquo; The system will direct the user to the &ldquo;Password Management Panel&rdquo;. &nbsp; Step 4: Enter the username When the correct username is entered, the system will take the user to the &ldquo;New Password&rdquo; screen to enter a new password. &nbsp; Step 5: Enter a valid password which meets all complexity requirements When the password does not meet the complexity requirements, the following error message is displayed: When the &ldquo;New Password&rdquo; and &ldquo;Confirm Password&rdquo; fields do not match, the following error message is displayed: When the passwords match and meet the complexity requirements, the system will redirect the user to the home screen of the respective application. &nbsp; Password Expiry Organizations created in MASC or MAO have a default password policy for native DB users which defines password complexity and password expiration rules. By default, the password for a native DB user will expire after 90 days. When the expiry date approaches, the user receives an email notifying them about the upcoming expiry and a link to renew the password. &nbsp; Change Password Step 1: Click the profile icon, open the menu, and select &ldquo;Change Password&rdquo;. The system will direct the user to the &ldquo;Password Management Panel&rdquo;. &nbsp; Step 2: Enter the old password and the new password and click &ldquo;Submit&rdquo; After configuring a new password, the user will be redirected to the home screen. &nbsp; Customer IdP Authentication & Authorization Multiple Identity Providers&nbsp;can be created. These IdPs can either be OIDC or SAML 2.0 protocol-based. The display names for the IdPs can be configured on the Administration console. &nbsp; Note:&nbsp;All IdP users must also exist in the Manhattan Organization Database for Authorization purposes. While it is true that customer users can authenticate against customer IdPs, the same user along with all roles, business unit allocation and location assignment must be either pre-created in the Manhattan Organization Database or follow a Just In Time (JIT) protocol to create the IdP user dynamically for the first time login. Step 1: Under the section &ldquo;Or sign in with&rdquo;, select the IdP to authenticate against The user is redirected to the appropriate identity provider login screen (i.e., Azure, Ping, OneLogin). &nbsp; Step 2: Enter the IdP username and password credentials and follow prompts for multifactor or other authentication steps (determined by your IdP). Once authenticated against the IdP, the user will be redirected to the home screen for the respective MASC or MAO application. &nbsp; Note: The &ldquo;Change Password&rdquo; option will not be available for IdP users &nbsp; Using Postman Postman is a popular REST&nbsp;API Client for making API calls. Postman uses the OAuth2 Resource Owner Password Grant Protocol, simply the Password Grant. The following includes the body parameters required to make a successful Access Token call to Manhattan Access Management&nbsp;2.0. &nbsp; grant_type : password client_id : &lt;client_id&gt; client_secret : &lt;Enter The Secret&gt; username : &lt;Enter the username&gt; password : &lt;Enter the Password&gt; &nbsp; The token endpoint (/oauth/token) is there for backward compatibility.&nbsp; Behind the scenes,&nbsp;the latest Token (OIDC compliant) endpoint is called. After entering the required body parameters, the user clicks the Send button. Post will make the token call and will get an access token from the server. The Access Token then has to be copied and pasted to the Header Tab of the REST API Call Tab prefixed by &#39;Bearer &#39;. Using the access token, the user can then make any REST API Call.