# Add Notes 

**Permalink:** addnotes
**Content Length:** 6,605 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:35:17.819117

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Customer Engagement&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Attributes ››Add Notes Adding Notes Notes allow you to add messages, reasons, and description to the order or order line.&nbsp;The Order Notes pop-up window allows you to select a note type and provide a message about the order. This note is then attached to the order and the instruction is performed before the order is shipped. For example, you can create a note of type Gift Message, write a message, and then attach it to the order. The gift message is printed and attached to the item when the order is processed and shipped. Notes can be added to orders in any status, based on the order mod type configuration. The order note is also used to enter the reason and description when an order is put on hold. Adding Order Notes is managed by grants. See the UI Resources page.&nbsp; The order notes can be added or edited across the order header or order line level from various screens, such as:&nbsp; Order Status&nbsp; Order Creation Order Edit&nbsp; Return order creation&nbsp; Return/Exchange order status&nbsp;&nbsp; To add order or item level notes on the edit order page, perform the following steps: On the Item Search page,&nbsp;search and select an item.&nbsp; After you&nbsp;add&nbsp;the items to the shopping cart and complete the checkout process, the&nbsp;Call Center&nbsp;page is displayed. On the&nbsp;Call Center&nbsp;page, make sure the page is in Edit mode. Then, choose one of the following options: For order level note, click the&nbsp;&nbsp;icon in the header section to add communication and instruction notes. For item level note, click&nbsp;the&nbsp;&nbsp;icon against the item to which you want to add a note. The Notes pop-up window is displayed. In the Note Type drop-down list, select a note type. In the Note text box, enter the appropriate note. Click&nbsp;the&nbsp;&nbsp;icon to delete a note. Click&nbsp;Save to save the note.&nbsp; To add another note, click the + icon and follow steps 5&nbsp;through 8. Note:&nbsp;When a user wants to add a new note to an order that currently has no existing notes, clicking on the notes icon will open the order notes pop-up, providing a blank row for the user to enter the note and select the note type. If the order or order line already has existing notes, clicking the notes icon will allow the user to open and edit any of those notes. In this case, an empty row will not be automatically provided; the user will need to click the &quot;+&quot; icon to add a new note to an order or order line with existing notes.