# Adjust Store Inventory Configuration

**Permalink:** adjust-inventory-configuration
**Content Length:** 12,213 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:36:21.677388

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Inventory & Fulfillment&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Inventory Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Adjust Store Inventory ››Adjust Store Inventory Configuration Adjust Store Inventory Configuration Store Inventory ConfigurationStore Inventory ParametersStore Inventory Adjustment TypesStore Inventory Adjustment ReasonsUIs and Entities This guide outlines the configuration required for adjusting the store inventory. Store Inventory Configuration The&nbsp;Maximum quantity allowed for inventory adjustment&nbsp;configuration in&nbsp;the Store Inventory Configuration UI (configuration ID = MAXIMUM_QUANTITY_ALLOWED_FOR_INVENTORY_ADJUSTMENT) defines the maximum number of units allowed&nbsp;to adjust inventory per item and adjustment type for a given adjustment transaction. This configuration helps to limit the damage caused by wrong inventory updates.&nbsp;A value of 0&nbsp;indicates that there is no limit applied to the number of units adjusted. An unconfigured (null) or invalid value imposes a hard limit of 5 adjustments per item and adjustment type for a given adjustment transaction. This configuration applies to both RFID and non-RFID flows. Store Inventory Parameters The &quot;Disable Pause & Resume in Adjust Inventory&quot; configuration is used to control the Pause & Resume functionality in the Adjust Inventory feature. It is disabled (unchecked)&nbsp;by default, which implies that Pause & Resume is enabled and, as a result, intermediate updates are sent to the server whenever adjustments are made as part of an &quot;Adjust Inventory&quot; transaction. Moreover, because of these updates, if a Store Associate intends to make adjustments, as part of a transaction,&nbsp;over an extended period of time, they can pause it and then resume it later on the same or on a different device. On the other hand, if a retailer wishes to enforce immediate submission of adjustments, it can enable (check) this parameter. When this parameter is enabled, intermediate updates are not saved, and the store associate is prompted to either submit or lose the adjustments that they have made if they try to migrate away from the Adjust Inventory UI. This configuration applies to both RFID and non-RFID flows. Store Inventory Adjustment Types The Store inventory adjustment type defines an&nbsp;action that can be performed on the inventory in a store. The following attributes construct an adjustment type: Attribute Description Mandatory? Store Inventory Adjustment Type Id An intuitive name for the task that adjusts inventory. Example, Mark as defective. Required Action Indicates the action performed on inventory. Choose one of the following&nbsp;options: Add - inventory needs to be incremented Subtract - inventory needs to be decremented Movement - inventory needs to be moved from one store disposition to another Required From Disposition Indicates the store disposition of inventory that needs to be decremented to move the inventory.&nbsp; Required if Action = Movement To Disposition Indicates the store disposition of inventory that needs to be: incremented if Add is the action decremented if Subtract is the action incremented if Movement is the action Required Require Comments Indicates if comments are required for a store inventory adjustment. No, defaults to False Require Reason Code Indicates if a reason code is required for a store inventory adjustment. No, defaults to False One or more roles&nbsp;must be associated with each adjustment type&nbsp;to control its access by users. With no association of a role&nbsp;to an adjustment type, no user can use that adjustment type when adjusting the store inventory. After creating an adjustment type, select the adjustment type in the Store Inventory Adjustment Type&nbsp;UI and use the Roles&nbsp;action to define who can use the adjustment type. Scan Controls Editing quantity is allowed for only those items that have the&nbsp;Scan Only&nbsp;attribute not equal to true. If set to true, the tap to increment and edit options are disabled, and the user must scan the unit to increment the quantity.&nbsp; The &#39;Required to scan at least one unit&#39; configuration in&nbsp;the Store Inventory Configuration UI (configuration ID = &quot;REQUIRED_TO_SCAN_AT_LEAST_ONE_UNIT&quot;) controls whether all units of an item must be scanned. If enabled, after the first unit is scanned, the&nbsp;user can edit the quantity in the UI to complete the additional units. This flag is only relevant for items whose Scan Only attribute &lt;&gt;&nbsp;true. Store Inventory Adjustment Reasons When an associate adjusts the store inventory, a reason can be provided.&nbsp;Store inventory&nbsp;adjustment reasons on the Store Inventory Configuration UI&nbsp;allow&nbsp;defining&nbsp;the reason codes and their descriptions. Attribute Description Adjustment Reason ID Unique identifier for the adjustment reason Adjustment Reason Name Name of the adjustment reason. A short name that can be easily shown on the handheld device is recommended. Example,&nbsp;Damaged and Verified damage. Adjustment Reason Description Describes the reason for adjustment&nbsp; To list a reason for selection during an adjustment, it must be associated with one or more adjustment types. When an item is adjusted, all the associated reasons with the adjustment type are available for&nbsp;selection. UIs and Entities The configuration UIs/entities mentioned in this document are listed in the following table,&nbsp;along with information to&nbsp;navigate&nbsp;to the API documentation. UI Name Component Group Seed Data Present? Seed Data Profile Store Inventory Configuration SIM StoreInventoryConfiguration services Yes Base Store Inventory Adjustment Types SIM StoreInventoryAdjustmentTypes services Yes Base Store Inventory Adjustment Reasons SIM StoreInventoryAdjustmentReason services Yes Base &nbsp;