# Adjust Store Inventory Process

**Permalink:** adjust-inventory-process
**Content Length:** 21,270 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:36:20.656607

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Inventory & Fulfillment&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Inventory Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Adjust Store Inventory ››Adjust Store Inventory Process Adjust Store Inventory Process Adjust Store Inventory ProcessAdjustmentsSubmit AdjustmentsIntermediate UpdatesResume on Another DeviceFinish&nbsp;Adjustment UpdatesCancel AdjustmentsRFIDRemove Item during adjustmentRFID - Unit Inventory is the source of truth for all inventory updatesAdjust inventory for Tagged and Non-Tagged itemsRFID ExceptionsUpdatesServices Adjust inventory allows store associates to adjust the inventory&nbsp;of items in the store. Inventory events can occur in the stores that do&nbsp;not&nbsp;trigger&nbsp;systemic inventory updates. Examples of such events include taking off inventory for display purposes, marking&nbsp;inventory&nbsp;as damaged, and writing off damaged&nbsp;units. The inventory adjustments&nbsp;help in maintaining inventory accuracy. Higher inventory accuracy in the store leads to lower shortages during fulfillment.&nbsp;Lower shortages lead to lower order splits and improve&nbsp;the bottom line of the business by reducing shipping costs.&nbsp;&nbsp; To know more on the&nbsp;adjust inventory activity during offline mode, please refer to the&nbsp;Store Offline Support&nbsp;page. Adjustments Store associates create inventory adjustments by selecting from pre-configured adjustment types. An adjustment type defines the store disposition(s) and adjustment action (add, subtract or movement) that will be performed. Adjustment types are controlled by&nbsp;permissions. An associate can create an adjustment for one or more items across one or more adjustment types at one time.&nbsp;Each item being adjusted for the inventory can be associated with a predefined adjustment reason, along with the comments. The number of units adjusted can be limited to a configured value which can help prevent&nbsp;unintended&nbsp;inventory updates.&nbsp; The Get Adjustment Types&nbsp;service retrieves&nbsp;adjustment types and their associated roles. The adjustment&nbsp;activity must&nbsp;be unique to an organization. The Get Next Adjustment ID&nbsp;service can be used to get a unique identifier&nbsp;generated by the system for the adjustment activity. Capturing comments and/or a reason code can be made mandatory per adjustment type which require users to provide additional information while performing an adjustment. This is helpful when supplemental information or a reason code is required for the adjustment type. For adjustment types that require a reason code and/or comments, a message is displayed on the item list screen for each item that is missing&nbsp;a required field. Refer to the&nbsp;Configuration guide&nbsp;for additional information. Note: The maximum limit on adjustment is applied to each item and adjustment type in an adjustment transaction. For example, if the maximum allowed units is 5, for one adjustment transaction an item can be adjusted to a maximum of 5 units under the adjustment type&nbsp;'Mark as damaged', and another 5 units under the adjustment type&nbsp;'Mark as display units'. &nbsp; Submit Adjustments Intermediate Updates As associates adjust items&nbsp;(either from a mobile device or a fixed station), each unit adjusted is synced from the device to the server.&nbsp; This&nbsp;saves the work in case the user must pause the adjustment activity, or a device failure occurs. This is achieved by the Save Adjustments&nbsp;service. This safeguard is especially important since an associate may perform adjustments over an extended period of time. As long as the "Disable Pause & Resume in Adjust Inventory" Store Inventory Parameter is unchecked, the progress is saved and consequently, the adjustment activity can be resumed later on the same device or on a different device (see&nbsp;Resume on Another Device.) Note that while these intermediate updates are saved to capture progress, updates are not performed to the inventory until the adjustments are submitted. Tip: submitStoreInventoryAdjustment API requires Location to be passed in the header and&nbsp;AdjustmentGroupStatus in the payload. Resume on Another Device As long as the "Disable Pause & Resume in Adjust Inventory" Store Inventory Parameter is unchecked, the intermediate updates are saved, and as a result, if an associate must resume partially completed adjustments on another device (due to the original device now in use by another associate&nbsp;or a device failure), the progress made on the original device is available on the new device up to the last saved intermediate update. Note:&nbsp;To resume work on another device, the same user and store&nbsp;must be used. Finish&nbsp;Adjustment Updates Once the adjustment is finished, the final step&nbsp;is to indicate that the adjustment is complete. This triggers the Submit Adjustments&nbsp;service to complete the adjustment transaction, create inventory logs, and update inventory. When the inventory is updated, the following information is sent&nbsp;on the Inventory Supply Event to Inventory Management: 1) Inventory Transaction Type - If the override store transaction type is configured for the store transaction type "Manual Adjustment", the inventory transaction type is populated with the override value. If no override is configured, the base&nbsp;value&nbsp;is sent. 2) Inventory Transaction ID&nbsp;-&nbsp; The adjustment group ID and adjustment&nbsp;detail ID attributes are sent to identify the adjustment transaction. Cancel Adjustments If an associate is unable to complete work on adjustments,&nbsp;the adjustments can be canceled. The Cancel Adjustments&nbsp;service triggers the updates. The adjustment group is canceled based on the ID provided in the service. RFID Store associates can use&nbsp;Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) devices to adjust store inventory. Store associates can use a handheld RFID reader to read RFID tags instead of scanning item&nbsp;barcodes. Refer to the&nbsp;Store RFID guide&nbsp;for additional information and configuration. The base default RFID range for Adjust Inventory&nbsp;is&nbsp;set to "Short". To minimize the chance of unwanted tags that are in the vicinity of being unintentionally read and included in an adjustment transaction, the RFID range cannot be changed by the associate during a transaction. The default value can be changed to something other than short, although this is not recommended. In RFID mode, all adjustments must be inputted by reading a RFID tag or scanning a unit-level barcode (EPC ID or SGTIN.) This includes subtraction adjustment types. The plus and minus actions as well as the ability to manually key enter the&nbsp;quantity are disabled in RFID mode in order for the unit-level tag information to be captured. Note: When the Adjust Inventory RFID configuration is enabled, once one or more tags are read the UI returns to the item list screen which summarizes the items and units that have been read so far. If users wish to enter reason codes or comments, they must manually enter them for each item.&nbsp;For adjustment types that require a reason code and/or comments, a message is displayed on the item list screen for each item that is missing&nbsp;a required field.&nbsp; Note:&nbsp;When the Adjust Inventory RFID configuration is enabled, a&nbsp;maximum of 25 units can be included in one adjustment transaction. If a 26th tag&nbsp;is read, an error message displays&nbsp;informing the store associate to submit the first twenty-five units and then initiate a new adjustment transaction for the remaining units. Note: When the Adjust Inventory RFID configuration is enabled, pause and resume is not supported. If the device loses power or times out, the in progress transaction is lost and must be restarted. If the user attempts to navigate away from the Adjust Inventory UI, a warning message is displayed indicating that progress will be lost. Remove Item during adjustment When the Adjust Inventory RFID configuration is enabled, a&nbsp;permission-controlled action allows the associate to remove an item from the list prior to submitting the adjustment. For more details, refer to the Store Inventory UI resources. RFID - Unit Inventory is the source of truth for all inventory updates To ensure accuracy of overall inventory updates, when the RFID "Adjust Inventory" flow is enabled, the from disposition is obtained from the Unit Inventory record and the from disposition configured in the Adjustment Type is ignored.&nbsp;Examples below.&nbsp; A store associate selects an adjustment type that moves inventory from the sellable to display stock disposition. If they happen to select&nbsp;a unit that resides in the return&nbsp;goods disposition instead of sellable stock,&nbsp;the transaction is treated as a movement from return goods to sellable stock. The unit is&nbsp;moved from return&nbsp;goods to display stock and supply events are generated accordingly. A store associate selects an adjustment type that moves inventory from the sellable to display stock disposition.&nbsp;If they happen to select&nbsp;a unit that does not exist in the Unit Inventory table, the transaction is treated as a addition rather than a movement. The unit is&nbsp;added to display stock and the sellable inventory level remains unchanged. Supply events are generated accordingly. A store associate selects an adjustment type that adds inventory to sellable stock. If they happen to select a unit which already resides in the Unit Inventory table, the transaction is treated as a movement rather than an addition. Assuming that the unit has a current disposition of returned goods, the unit would be&nbsp;moved from returned goods to sellable stock and the supply events are generated accordingly. A store associate selects an adjustment type that&nbsp;subtracts a damaged unit. If they happen to select a unit whose disposition is sellable stock instead of damaged, the unit is subtracted from sellable stock and the damaged disposition&nbsp;remains untouched.&nbsp;The supply events are generated accordingly. A store associate selects an adjustment type that&nbsp;subtracts a damaged unit. If they happen to select a unit which does not exist in the Unit Inventory table, no supply events are generated and the damaged stock remains unchanged since the net change to supply for the damaged disposition is zero (plus one minus one nets zero.) Note:&nbsp;Irrespective of the adjustment initiated by the store associate, the Inventory Audit UI displays the actual adjustment performed based on the existing disposition of the unit. For more details on how the UI behaves, please refer to the following UI help guide: Adjust Inventory using unit-level RFID tags Adjust inventory for Tagged and Non-Tagged items Inventory adjustments can be made by store associates for both tagged and non-tagged items with the same adjustment transaction. For RFID-tracked items (items with "Is RFID Tagged" = true in the Item Master), store associates can read RFID tags with the RFID reader. For items that are not RFID tracked, the item barcode can be scanned. RFID Exceptions If a store associate&nbsp;is unable to read the unit-level tag they can scan an EPC or SGTIN&nbsp;barcode to perform inventory adjustment if present on the unit. Updates When the store associate submits the adjustment(s): The following updates are done to the Unit Inventory: EPC status is updated as "Available" in case of inventory movement or addition EPC status is updated as "Removed" in case of inventory subtraction Location ID is updated if the unit's location has changed Sub Event Type is stamped as the Adjustment Type selected by the Store Associate Disposition, Supply Type, and Last Read Date Time are updated Purge Date is stamped in case of inventory subtraction Supply event(s) is generated based on the existing disposition of the unit and the adjustment type selected by the Store Associate. The from disposition value that is configured for the adjustment type is ignored, and the disposition of the unit is used instead.&nbsp; The Inventory Audit record(s) is created based on the actual adjustment(s) performed considering the existing disposition of the unit(s) Services The&nbsp;APIs listed in the following table are referenced in this document. Refer to the API documentation for additional details on&nbsp;each service. Service Component Group Service Endpoint Get Adjustment Types SIM Store Inventory Adjustment Types Controller sim/api/sim/storeInventoryAdjustmentTypes Get Next Adjustment ID SIM Inv Adjustment Group Controller sim/api/sim/inventory/nextStoreInventoryAdjustmentId Submit&nbsp;Adjustments SIM Inv Adjustment Group Controller sim/api/sim/inventory/submitStoreInventoryAdjustment Cancel&nbsp;Adjustments SIM Inv Adjustment Group Controller sim/api/sim/inventory/cancelInventoryAdjustment/{adjustmentGroupId} Save Adjustments SIM Inv Adjustment Group Controller sim/api/sim/inventory/saveItemInventoryAdjustment &nbsp; &nbsp;