# Alert Configuration

**Permalink:** alert_configuration
**Content Length:** 8,691 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:34:58.058759

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help ››Alert Configuration Alert Configuration Order CancellationOrder ReprocessConfirmation DueAllocation DueRelease DueShipment DueAlert Notification&nbsp; An alert is a notification generated to detect and convey the meaningful real time events that define crucial change of state in the system.&nbsp;Through Alert Configuration screen, alerts can be enabled or disabled in the system. Also, certain settings can be configured for alerts. Component Drop-down: Select the component from the drop-down to view alerts available for the component. Following alerts are available for order component&nbsp; Order Cancellation Order cancellation alerts are generated when number of orders canceled in the system meets threshold configured for the day of the week. Enabling the order cancellation alerts and configuring cancellation thresholds for each day of the week are explained below&nbsp; To configure the order cancellation alert, perform the following steps: Navigate to Developer Resources &gt; Tools &gt; Alert Configuration. The Alert Configuration page is displayed. Select the Order Cancellation check box to enable the order cancellation alert. Click Save. The &lsquo;alert configuration saved successfully&rsquo; message is displayed. To configure the cancellation threshold, perform the following steps: Navigate to Developer Resources &gt; Tools &gt; Alert Configuration. The Alert Configuration page is displayed. In the Order Cancellation section, click the icon next to Cancellation threshold can be configured here. Enter the threshold limit for each day of the week. Note: When the daily order cancellation count meets the cancellation threshold configured for the day of the week, an email alert is triggered, and the alert is repeated every time the total count of canceled orders exceeds the threshold by 10% of the threshold configured for the day of the week. Click Save. Order Reprocess Order reprocess alerts are generated for orders if any of the order state transitions fails to get reprocessed.&nbsp; To configure the order reprocess alert, perform the following steps: Navigate to Developer Resources &gt; Tools &gt; Alert Configuration. The Alert Configuration page is displayed. Select the Order Reprocess check box to enable the order&nbsp;reprocess alert. Click Save. The &lsquo;alert configuration saved successfully&rsquo; message is displayed. Confirmation Due The Confirmation Due email alert will be generated for orders that fail to meet the Confirmation Milestone configured on Order Configuration &ndash; Order Monitoring. To configure the confirmation due alert, perform the following steps: Navigate to Developer Resources &gt; Tools &gt; Alert Configuration. The Alert Configuration page is displayed. Select the Confirmation Due check box to enable the confirmation due alert. Click Save. The &lsquo;alert configuration saved successfully&rsquo; message is displayed. Allocation Due The Allocation Due alert will be generated for orders that fail to meet the Allocation Milestone configured on Order Configuration &ndash; Order Monitoring. To configure the allocation due alert, perform the following steps: Navigate to Developer Resources &gt; Tools &gt; Alert Configuration. The Alert Configuration page is displayed. Select the Allocation Due check box to enable the allocation due alert. Click Save. The &lsquo;alert configuration saved successfully&rsquo; message is displayed. Release Due The Release Due alert will be generated for orders that fail to meet the Release Milestone configured Order Configuration &ndash; Order Monitoring. To configure the release due alert, perform the following steps: Navigate to Developer Resources &gt; Tools &gt; Alert Configuration. The Alert Configuration page is displayed. Select the Release Due check box to enable the release due alert. Click Save. The &lsquo;alert configuration saved successfully&rsquo; message is displayed. Shipment Due The Shipment Due alert will be generated for orders that fail to meet the Fulfilled Milestone configured on Order Configuration &ndash; Order Monitoring. To configure the shipment due alert, perform the following steps: Navigate to Developer Resources &gt; Tools &gt; Alert Configuration. The Alert Configuration page is displayed. Select the Shipment Due check box to enable the shipment&nbsp;due alert. Click Save. The &lsquo;alert configuration saved successfully&rsquo; message is displayed. Alert Notification&nbsp; This feature enables you to configure email recipients for alerts. To configure emails for sending alert notifications, perform the following steps: Navigate to Developer Resources &gt; Tools &gt; Alert Configuration. The Alert Configuration page is displayed. Select the component from the Component drop-down and enter one or more email IDs in the form of a comma-separated list. All the alert emails generated will be sent to the email IDs specified on this field. &nbsp;