# Allocation

**Permalink:** allocationoverview
**Content Length:** 10,240 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:20.357588

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Allocation ››Allocation Allocation Overview &nbsp; &nbsp; Allocation OverviewAllocation Categories &nbsp; When there is insufficient history available for products to confidently predict customer preferences, then you can&nbsp;replenish the inventory in stores. For the identified&nbsp;products, inventory needs to be distributed to each store in the right quantity at the right time based on demand predictions. Active Allocation provides the ability to allocate available inventory to locations through a multi-channel environment by using a user-defined definition of need. Using Active Allocation, you can&nbsp;determine the optimal pack quantities that need to be shipped to various locations: The active allocation will&nbsp;apply the method specified based on the current lifecycle of the product to determine the need or required quantities for every product at a store. &nbsp; You can compute the need based on sales/assortment plans, or historical sales metrics. When a product is available in multiple size packs, Active Allocation would recommend the best pack to ship to a location taking into account the current inventory and historical sales patterns (using size profiles) at that location. &nbsp; Allocation Workflow &nbsp; Component Description Entities Processes/Job component-ai-uifacade Custom and Metadata UI Suggested Allocation&nbsp; Allocation Maintenance Allocation Strategy Allocation Dashboard Enriching Jobs component-ai-product&nbsp; (Master Data) Manages Products and Styles Product Hierarchy Style Template Hierarchy Product Groups Product Access Group&nbsp; &nbsp; component-ai-productlocation&nbsp; (Master Data) Manages entities interfaced at Aggregate Levels (Class/Category/Department) Product Location Size Profile Product Location&nbsp; Constraint Product Location Grade Model Product Model Store &nbsp; component-ai-plan (Transactional Data) &nbsp; Store metrics from Merchandise Plan, Assortment Plan, or Key Item Plans. Plan Type Metric Type Plan Metric &nbsp; component-ai-metrics (Transactional Data) Store Historical metrics like Sales, Lost Sales, Promo sales, EOPs, etc in Elastic Search. Support aggregation by product/location attributes. &nbsp; Metric Metric Type Product Attribute Sync Location Attribute Sync component-ai-location&nbsp; (Master Data) Manage Locations (Stores/DCs/Virtual) information Location Hierarchy Location Group Location Access Group Business Calendar &nbsp; component-ai-inventory (Transactional Data) Provide real-time visibility of the available inventory for all the products at all stores. Inventory Type Inventory Inventory Sync component-ai-allocation (Configuration/Transaction Data) Allocates inventory based on the rules and policies defined by the user. Allocate based on PO, ASN, or On Hand at DC. Allows users to define various methods that would be used in calculating Need. Realtime allocation. KPIs for displaying in UI. &nbsp; Allocation&nbsp;Unit Allocation Strategy Allocation Policy Allocation Phase Allocation Result Detail Allocation Product Location &nbsp; Allocation Engine Processor. &nbsp; Allocation Categories The Allocation menu &nbsp;provides a clear summary of baseline demand, predicted demand, on-hand inventory, orders in route, and the remaining gap in the needed orders to enable the informed allocation of inventory and resources to ensure that supplies are delivered to the right place at the right time. &nbsp; Allocation&nbsp;categories, and KPIs to measure their&nbsp;performance: Unallocated Supplies Allocated Supplies Note: An user with the approval permissions can approve the pending allocations.&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;