# Allocation Configuration Guide

**Permalink:** allocation-configuration-guide
**Content Length:** 20,421 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:37:58.399094

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process &amp; Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Allocation ››Allocation Configuration Guide Allocation Configuration Guide &nbsp; Master DataCalendarItemItem HierarchiesSize CategoriesModel Item SetupLocationLocation HierarchiesChannelsLocation GroupsModel Store SetupItem LocationItem Location PhaseItem Location GradeItem Location ConstraintsPlan and MetricMetric TypePlan Metric TypePlan TypeUser Access and AssignmentItem Access FilterUser Item AccessAllocator AssignmentForecastingDemand TypesForecast PoliciesAllocation Strategy and MethodsAllocation MethodsAllocation StrategySize ProfilingSize Profile PoliciesReview Process AutomationAuto Submit - Approval PoliciesLocation Allocation Settings Allocation Configuration &nbsp; Master Data The master data for Allocation includes Item, Location, and Organization data. Given below is the information for each of these. &nbsp; Calendar A business calendar is essential to set and view information about the current business date, calendar type, and week to month and quarter assignment. This screen is used to view and edit business calendar details like current business date, calendar type etc. &nbsp; Item The item represents the Item merchandise or other sellable commodities for an organization. In allocation, Items are assigned/allocated to stores where they are been stored, consumed or sold. These screens displays list of Items, other related entities with the corresponding attributes. Item and Style are two key entities. Item is the physical Item. In terms of Item hierarchy, it is the leaf level entity. Allocation output is at Item level. Style is parent of a Item from soft-lines categories (apparel/shoes/fashion accessories). It is an important hierarchy level that is used in merchandise planning and allocation for these Items. &nbsp; Item Hierarchies This screen is used to create, edit and view the Item hierarchies and hierarchy levels. &nbsp; Size Categories This screens displays the master-list of all the sizes within a Item category. &nbsp; Model Item Setup Model Items are the existing benchmark Items which are used to copy sales, history and other KPIs to the new Items. This screen is used to setup model Items for new Items. Model Item can be set at Style and Style-color level for styled Items and Item level for non-styled Items. &nbsp; Location Locations are the channels for selling or storing merchandise. Locations can be physical store (brick and mortar), distribution center or virtual in case of eCommerce. This is the screen to edit and view locations, stores, and distribution centers. &nbsp; Location Hierarchies This screen is used to create, edit and view the location hierarchies and hierarchy levels. &nbsp; Channels This screen is used to create, edit and view business channels. Channels are used to define allocations of inventory for sectors of the business other than a store, i.e. ecommerce orders, wholesale business, etc. Allocated inventory can be viewed by channel and exported to external systems by channel for inventory segmentation purposes. &nbsp; Location Groups This screen displays list of location groups. Locations are typically grouped by retailers using attributes like climate, store size etc. or KPIs like sales volume, margins etc. Users can use location groups in allocation strategy to allocate inventory to respective location groups. &nbsp; Model Store Setup Model stores are the existing benchmark stores which are used to copy sales, history and other KPIs to the new stores. This screen is used to setup model stores for newly opened stores. &nbsp; Item Location Users can define the eligibility for selling Items at desired stores. Also, parameters defined for Item location, like lead time, inventory thresholds, constraints, grade, etc. that govern the allocation for the respective Item to the corresponding store. This screen displays the parameters applicable for the respective Item-location. For example, lead time, grade, size profile, inventory thresholds etc. &nbsp; Item Location Phase Item Location Phase defines the life cycle stages (allocation phases) for an Item at a specified location. It can be specified for the Item categories. &nbsp; Item Location Grade Grade is a ranking method for an Item Location. This screen is used to assign the grades for each store for the respective Item categories. Select a Grade, Start Date, Source Location and define the Item hierarchy. &nbsp; Item Location Constraints This screen is used to assign the minimum and maximum inventory constraints for each store for the respective Item categories. Select a Minimum, Maximum constraints, Source Location, and define the Item hierarchy. &nbsp; Plan and Metric Historical (Metric) and Future (Plan) KPIs are important inputs for computing need while allocating inventory. &nbsp; Metric Type Users can specify the classification of the historical KPIs to be interfaced. &nbsp; Plan Metric Type Users can specify the classification of the plan (future) KPIs to be interfaced. &nbsp; Plan Type Users can specify the classification of the plan to be interfaced. They can also specify the calendar level and Plan - metric assignment. &nbsp; User Access and Assignment Allocations and supplies which a user sees can be limited with Item Access Filters &amp; User Item Access. &nbsp; Item Access Filter Item filters can be configured and then assigned to users for limiting access. Item Access Filters can be defined by Department, Class, Subclass attributes. &nbsp; User Item Access User Item Access allows Item Access Filters to be assigned to users. A user can only see supplies and allocations for the Items specified in assigned Item Access Filters. &nbsp; Allocator Assignment This screen is used to define a user responsible for a given Item location during strategy selection. Define the Item locations for which a user is responsible. Select a User, and Source Location, and define the Item hierarchy. The strategy used when allocating supplies for an Item location will be a strategy created by the assigned user and where the Item location meets the strategy criteria. A default strategy is used if no user is assigned or assigned user has not created a strategy with matching item location criteria. &nbsp; Forecasting Users can calculate style and item location needs from system-generated forecasts. &nbsp; Demand Types Users can define demand types to combine demand values of multiple metric types together for forecasting. &nbsp; Forecast Policies Users can define policies to specify business rules for the generation of forecast and maintenance of forecast entities. There are 3 steps to configuring forecast policies. 1. Forecast Definition Users can define a forecast policy by specifying the demand type and location level for forecasting. The Item &amp; location categories and location type can be optionally specified to limit that policy configuration to a subset of Item-locations. Forecasting goals and accuracy parameters are also specified in this step. Users can forecast demand for any demand type at the aggregate level in the location hierarchy and disaggregate that forecast to the leaf-level item locations. 2. Forecast Modelling Configurations Users can specify the hierarchy levels, attributes for item and locations, and the priority sequence to identify model item locations.&nbsp;Model Item-locations will be used to derive the forecast for the short-lifecycle Items. 3. Forecast Modelling Parameters Parameters for generating lifecycle profiles and identifying the model item locations&nbsp;to be used in forecasting will be specified in this step. &nbsp; Allocation Strategy and Methods Allocation strategy flow allows users to specify business rules for allocating inventory to stores. &nbsp; Allocation Methods User can configure the methods for need computation by entering the calculation in the form of an expression, or by using the expression builder, which is a question and answer way to build the expression. These methods can be used in allocation strategy. &nbsp; Allocation Strategy Allocation strategy workflow is used to define business rules for selecting source and destination locations, item selection, and how inventory will be allocated. &nbsp; Size Profiling The size profile is the historical selling ratios (profiles) for each size. Users can specify the business rules for generating the size profiles using the size profile policy screen. &nbsp; Size Profile Policies Users can specify the business rules for generating the size profiles using the size profile policy screen. These business rules can be set to define Item hierarchy levels, fulfillment history KPI, KPI history horizon, and the location threshold for recommending the size profile. Users can automatically group stores with similar size profiles into clusters. &nbsp; Review Process Automation Users can specify business rules for automatically submitting, approving, and/or releasing allocations. &nbsp; Auto Submit - Approval Policies Users can specify business rules for auto submission and/or approval of allocations by a user. Auto approval for each policy is optional. Auto submit is implied for each policy configured. If auto-submit is not applicable, auto-submit-approval policies do not need to be configured. &nbsp; Location Allocation Settings Users can specify location parameters that are specific to allocation, such as auto-releasing approved allocations for distribution centers.