# Allocation Strategy

**Permalink:** allocation-strategy
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning/UI Help/Configurations/Strategy/Allocation Strategy
**Content Length:** 31,194 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:10:51.199250

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning››UI Help››Configurations››Strategy ››Allocation Strategy Allocation Strategy Allocation StrategyCreating a StrategyEditing a Strategy Deleting a Strategy Field Description The allocation strategy defines business rules for the system to automatically compute allocation quantity based on your set conditions. The workflow allows you to define business rules for selected source and destination locations, for selected products. You can define the allocation strategy to assign different allocation rules at different stages of an item’s lifecycle. The allocation strategy displays all strategies that are created in the system. You can view or create new strategies. Creating a Strategy Allocation Strategy Workflow To create a new strategy: Select Menu > Strategy > Allocation Strategy Click Create to view Create New Allocation Strategy wizard. The wizard is categorized into different sections. Allocation Strategy Definition Select Allocator for Allocation Strategy Configuring Source Location and Preference Allocation Policy and Rule Configuration In the Allocation Strategy Definition section of the wizard, enter the  Strategy Id, Name, and  Description. Select the Prioritize Higher Margin Locations from the following options. Yes - If the option is Yes, then the system will sort and group product location by the location priority schedule to allocate products to higher margin locations  (e.g., sort ascending by markdown%). This step is done before prioritizing based on the Location Priority Type. No - This is the default option. Select the Location Priority Sequence from the following options. Allocate All Needs to Highest Grade Locations First Allocate Minimum to All Locations First Note: All mandatory fields are denoted with *. Click Save and Continue. Select the Allocator Id from the drop-down list. If the user has the role/type of an allocator, then the 'allocator' is the user itself and is not editable. if the user has any other role (manager, or admin), then the 'allocator' drop-down is editable and can be left blank (to apply to all allocators). Note: Users cannot create a duplicate strategy for the same DC, and allocator. Also, only one strategy can be created. Select Configuring Source Location and Preference section. Click  Add New to view lookup popup window. Select the Source location Id for the allocation strategy from the drop-down list. Click the Submit button. Click Save and Continue. Select the Allocation Policy and Rule Configuration section. Click  Add New to view lookup popup window. The wizard is categorized into different sections. Allocation Policy and Rule Configuration Flow To create a new allocation policy and to set to rule for the allocation strategy configuration from the following steps. Allocation Policy Definition Select Products for Allocation Policy Destination Selection Method Select Destination Location Select Allocation Policy Phase Select the Allocation Policy Definition section. Enter the Allocation Policy Id and Description for allocation policy. Click Save and Continue. Note: All mandatory fields are denoted with *. Select Products for Allocation Policy section. You can set the rules for allocation policy. Click the + Add New Grouping button to add a new group section in the wizard. Click the + Add Condition button to add a new condition column to define the attribute, operator, and value. Select the Attribute (product.Class Id, product.Color Id, etc..) from the Attribute dropdown. Select the Operator (=, !=, in, !in, etc..)  from Operator dropdown. Select This is a catch-all rule checkbox. The Add New Grouping and Add Condition buttons are disabled. Click Save and Continue. Select the Destination Selection Method section. Select one of the below options for Follow the Network (Include all Locations primarily serviced by the selected supplying Locations). Yes No Note: When user selects  Follow the Network as yes, system selects all locations primarily serviced by the selected DC. Manual selection ( Destination  location selection)  is disabled in this case. Click Save and Continue. Select the Destination Locations section. Click Add New to view lookup popup window. Select the Location Groups from the Select Destination Location Group dropdown. Click Submit. Click Save and Continue. Allocation Phase and Rule Flow To Set Allocation Phase and Rule, Select the Set Allocation Phase and Rule section. Click Add New to view lookup popup window. The Create New Allocation Policy Phase wizard opens. Select the Allocation Policy Phase from the dropdown list. Select the Method from the drop-down list. Select the Pack Rounding Method from the below options. Balanced Over allocate Under allocate Enter the Holdback % or click   to add the holdback percentage number. Enter the E-com  Holdback %   or click    to add the holdback percentage for the E-Commerce channel for the strategy. Select the 'Set RAQ to zero when Size Profile Index is zero’ from the following options. Yes - Minimums are not applied and need and RAQ is set to zero when a size profile index is zero No - Minimums applied regardless of size profile index Select the Enforce Min and Max from the following options. Yes No Click Save and Continue. To Specify DC Hold Backs, Select the Specify DC Hold Backs section. Click Add New to view lookup popup window. The Create New Hold Backs wizard opens. Select the associated Channel for which inventory is being held back (E-commerce or Retail) from the drop-down list. Enter the Description and Hold Back % for which inventory is being held back. Click Save and Finish. The new Hold Backs were created successfully. Click Save and Continue. To Specify Adjustments By Fulfillment Options, Users can specify if the need to be adjusted based on fulfillment options available. Select Specify Adjustments BY Fulfillment Options section. Enter the Ship From Store Adjustment %, Ship To Store Adjustment %, Pick Up In Store Adjustment %, and Curbside Pick Up Adjustment % or click   to add the adjustment percentage to the locations need for each fulfillment option defined. Valid values of the adjustments are between 0 and 500%. Click Save and Finish.  The Operation Successful message displays. It navigates back to the Allocation Policy and Rule Configuration wizard with   icon in the list pane records. Click Save and Finish. The allocation strategy is created for a group of the product. To Set Transfer Parameters, Users can set the below parameters when suggesting transfers. Enter the Amount of overstock at Source which should not be considered for transfer value (define in days of supply). This value is a buffer for source location overstock. The source must have at least X number of days of supply of overstock before a transfer can be suggested. Enter the Stop suggesting transfers how many days before, end of Destination Season? value. Transfers can be suggested up until defined number of days before the destination product location ‘End-Of-Season’ end date. Enter the X% of Destination need required to suggest transfer value. Transfers will only be suggested from a store if the source store can fulfill at least this much of the destination’s need. Valid Values 0-100 %. Default is 80%. This is a required field. Enter Automatically Evaluate Store to Store Transfers? with Yes or No option. When set to Yes, suggested transfers will be calculated with the Allocation engine, after DC Allocations. When set to No, transfers will be calculated with the transfer schedule job only. Enter Wait how many days into Source Season until transfers are suggested? value. Transfers can be suggested by a defined number of days after the source product location ‘In-Season’ start date. Enter the Minimum required savings to suggest transfer ($) value. The threshold under which a transfer is not worth the costs.  It can include shipping costs, labor costs, plus a buffer to make the transfer worthwhile. Click Finish to set the transfer parameters. Note: All the above fields are mandatory. Editing a Strategy You can edit the attributes of the existing strategy information using a strategy record. Note: You can edit a strategy record in 2 different ways using the Edit and View buttons. Edit View Select the required strategy record card. Click the Edit button to edit the Allocation Strategy wizard. Modify the required fields. Click Save and  Continue button on each screen to move to the next screen. Click Finish and Save to save the modified strategy details. Details View Select the required strategy record card. Click the View button to view the Allocation Strategy wizard. Click the Continue button on the screen to move to the next screen. Click the Edit button to view the Allocation Strategy wizard. Modify the required sections. Click Finish. Deleting a Strategy Delete Select the required record card. select Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts as 'Deletion of allocation strategy is irreversible'. Click Yes to delete the strategy record. Field Description The following are the field descriptions of the attributes available on the screen. Field Description Strategy Id An alphanumeric ID that uniquely defines each strategy. Name The name of the allocation strategy. Source DC Source DC for the allocation. Description The description of the allocation strategy. Created By Displays the created person name. Location Priority Type The required allocation priority type from the following options. Allocate All Needs to Highest Grade Locations First Allocate Minimum to All Locations First Allocation Policy Count Displays how many policies are associated with the strategy. Destination Location The list of destination location groups. Allocation Policy Phase count Displays how many policy phases are associated with the strategy. Source Location Name Displays the source location name. Description Source location description. Location Group Name The source location group name. Location Count Displays the number of DC associated with the location group. Description The location group description. Follow The Network Note: When the user select follow the network yes, then manually location groups selection is disabled. All the location fulfilled by DC is automatically selected. Phase Same as the allocation policy phase. Source Location Id The location Id of the source DC. Allocation Policy Id The alphanumeric ID for the allocation policy. Description The description of the allocation policy. Location Groups The destination location groups. Allocation Policy Phase The allocation policy phase. Method Method for need computation allocation. Pack Optimization Type The following types are available for pack optimization. Balanced Over allocate Under allocate Hold Back % The percentage of inventory to be held back in DC for the selected allocation. E-com Hold Back % The  Hold back% for E-com channel for a strategy to manage allocations more efficiently. Enforce Min & Enforce Max User selection to enforce or ignore allocation constraints. Set RAQ to zero when Size Profile Index is zero This setting can be used to ensure RAQ is always zero for size with a zero size profile index, regardless of need and minimums. If set to 'No', minimums are applied as configured. Action Buttons Button Description Edit Edit the strategy records. This button is available in multiple sections of the screen. Read Editing Strategy details for more information. View Click this button to navigate to the allocation strategy wizard to view and edit the allocation strategy records. Deselect Click this button to clear the selected strategy records. Delete Click this button to delete the allocation strategy records. Save & Close Clicking on this button, the changes, if any will be saved and the user will exit out of the wizard and taken back to the main list page. Back Click this button to navigate to the previous screen. Re-evaluate Overstock & Suggest Transfers Existing overstock supplies are re-evaluated and the transfer process runs for overstocks with a selected allocation policy. All overstock supplies are eligible for re-evaluation, including Unallocated, Suggested, Submitted, and Rejected. Click Re-evaluate Overstock & Suggest Transfers button. A warning message will be displayed as below. “All existing Overstock Supplies with this policy will be re-evaluated and new transfer quantities suggested. This includes Suggested, Submitted, Rejected, and Unallocated Overstock Supplies. Would you like to continue? Click 'Yes' to re-evaluate all existing overstock supplies. Note: Only existing overstock supplies are re-evaluated for overstock. Note: Add aiui::ai-allocation::allocationstrategy::accessAll resource id which is being used in the java layer to fetch the records.