# Allocated Supplies

**Permalink:** allocated-supplies
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning/UI Help/Allocation/Allocated Supplies
**Content Length:** 30,515 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:09:48.151963

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning››UI Help››Allocation ››Allocated Supplies Allocated Supplies Allocated SuppliesFilterField DescriptionAction Buttons The allocated supplies screen helps the user to find a particular supply without knowing the status. The four separate Suggested/Submitted/Approved/Rejected Allocation UIs that were previously accessible directly from the menu have been merged into a single Allocated Supplies UI, filterable by the supply status (e.g., suggested).  On the filter panel, the number of allocated supplies is displayed next to each status.  Multiple users may work as a team where they submit, approve, or reject allocations. From the Allocators Console UI, when a user navigates to one of the Allocated Supplies (e.g., Suggested Allocation), the system displays the new Allocated Supplies UI with the filter pre-set to only showing records in the requested status (e.g., suggested) and saved filters are supported here. The Allocation Maintenance UI, which is accessible from the Allocated Supplies,  also displays the supply status indicator  (suggested, submitted, approved, rejected, or multiple statuses). The user can view the status of the supply (suggested, etc.) as an indicator in various colors (suggested, submitted, approved, rejected, semi submit, partial reject and partial submit) on each card when a user expands the card. Filter The list of supply filters are, Purchase Order Source Id Status ( Approved, Suggested, Submitted, and Rejected) Source Type  (user can view the counts on the filter) Estimated Deliver Week Season Start Week Product Style Product Name Department Class Subclass Color Size Source Location Name Has Job Error Loose Supplies Semi Submit User can create a saved filter by supply status and default their view to the desired supply type, e.g., an allocator may want to default the view to the suggested allocation while a manager/approver may want to default the view to the submitted allocation. Field Description Following are the field description attributes: Field Description Department Defines the organization hierarchy structure which is set for the product created. This classification enables the organization to easily summarize data using each level within the department. For example, a product hierarchy in the men's wear department. No. of Products The total number of products. Total Need The need value for any allocable product is computed if it's any current phase/season, based on the method for that phase. Need i,j represents the need for product i, at location j. if it's not in a phase, then the need is 0. Need at the aggregate level is the sum of needs at all allocable product-location under that category. Total Available The total available products. Total Allocated The total number of allocated products. Total Hold Back The total holdback number of the allocated products. Est. Sell Thru It specifies the percentage of the current inventory will be sold within a certain time period. In Stock% For any product location, the product location is assumed to in stock if it's on-hand >0. For any aggregate level, the in-stock percent is defined as, Sum of in-stock products locations which are in an active phase)/Count of product- locations that are in an active phase. Days of Supply It specifies how many days the current inventory of a product will last. Bi-weekly projection (12w) It specifies how long the current inventory will last before there is a risk of missing demand. Displays the shortage based on the next 12 weeks. Note: Bi-weekly projections will be grayed out when the values are still under the calculation process. Aggregate Suggestion You can select the aggregate level to see the result. This will update the sort component options to show all levels equal or above the level selected. This icon will display when the supply has had an error in processing. Hover the mouse over this icon to view the text for the error for the supply. On the card, if any child tiles have an error, this icon will display and show the number of tiles (supplies) that have errors in the card. Action Buttons Buttons Description Deselect Click this button to clear the selected records. Card View Select supplies and click the View button to move to allocation maintenance (next screen) Detail View Click this button to view the product image with details. Recalculate Click this button based on the strategy. The following action message will be displayed. Click 'yes' to apply to recalculate for non-overstock supplies. Modify Method Click this button to open the method selection popup, where the user can change the method for allocation for non -overstock supplies. The following Method Selection window appears. Enter the required field and click Apply. The following action message will be displayed. Click 'Yes' to modify method for the applied non-overstock supplies. Reject Click this button to sent back supplies to the allocators for re-submission. The following action message will be displayed. Click 'Yes' to reject non-overstock supplies. Approve Click this button for approval. The following action message will be displayed. Click 'Yes' to approve non-overstock supplies. Release Click this button to move the supply to the released status. The following action message will be displayed. Click 'Yes' to release non-overstock supplies. Submit Click this button for approval. The following action message will be displayed. Click 'Yes' to release non-overstock supplies. Evaluate Transfers Click Evaluate Transfers button to recalculate the overstock supplies. Note: This button appears only when OVERSTOCK supplies are selected. The Evaluate Transfers section pop-up window displays. Select the required option and click Apply. The following Action message will be displayed. Click 'Yes' to evaluate transfer for the applied overstock supplies. Delete Click Delete button to delete overstock supplies. Note: This button appears only when OVERSTOCK supplies are selected. A warning message will be displayed as below. Click Yes to delete selected overstock supplies. View All Sizes It navigates to the Allocation Maintenance screen and displays all the associated supplies present across all the statuses.  The user cannot edit this screen. Note: This button appears only when a user chooses only loose suppli(es) that are available in multiple sizes. Edit All Sizes Click the Edit All Sizes button. It will display an action warning pop-up message. Click 'Yes' to navigate to the Allocation Maintenance screen and display the associated supplies of the selected loose supply from the OPEN/SUGGESTED and REJECTED status. The user can edit this screen. Note: This button appears only when a user chooses loose suppli(es) that are available in multiple sizes. Hover the mouse over this icon to view the "information to the left is for the aggregate group and to the right reflects the filtered date" message in the Allocated Supplies screen. Click this icon in the Allocation Maintenance screen to view the distribution by sizes for the selected loose supply from the OPEN/SUGGESTED and REJECTED status. If there are multiple sizes, it shows the quantities for each size. This icon appears if the supply is allocated from PO. Hover the mouse over this icon to view the name as 'PO Based Allocation'. Partial Submit When the first co-allocator (Team) submits the supply till the submission by the last co-allocator (Other Teams), the supply will be in partially submitted status. If there are no other allocators (Team) yet to submit, then the supply will be marked as 'Submitted'. Hover the mouse over the Submitted status, it will display all the submitted teams. Error message If the user wants to update the partial release or approved or rejected supply status, the following warning message will be populated over the supply tiles on the UI. 'An attempt to update this supply has failed because part of all the supply is not in a valid status for updates'. Lind Id Displays line id attribute to the tile for the future supplies. Users can identify same items with different ids in same PO/ASN. Note: Line Id will display only for future supplies(PO/ASN) and not for on-Hand.