# Allocation Maintenance

**Permalink:** allocation-maintenance
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning/UI Help/Allocation/Allocated Supplies/Allocation Maintenance
**Content Length:** 30,650 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:09:49.655365

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning››UI Help››Allocation››Allocated Supplies ››Allocation Maintenance Allocation Maintenance Allocation MaintenanceFiltersList of BannersAction Buttons The allocation maintenance screen is used to review the allocation details with quantities that are being sent to every single destination. User can perform the followings: They can see the allocation details of each product in the pack. View any list of attributes that were used to compute the allocation. Aggregate the allocations qualities to the stores, by a specified list of location attributes. You can navigate to this screen by selecting supplies from the suggested or submitted or approved or rejected allocations screen and clicking on the View button. Click on View All Sizes for any loose supplies. Team information will be displayed for each ARD on the maintenance screen. Filters Location ID Location Name Location Description Location Type Region District Store Size Climate County PostalCode City State Country Is Frozen List of Banners The following allocation attributes are available to the user to understand the allocation. Available - It displays the total available inventory for a product. Need - It displays the need value for any product, and is computed if it's any current phase. Allocate - It displays the value of a single product that's being allocated. Hold Back - It displays the total holdback number of the allocated products. Change In Allocation - It displays the manual changes made to the allocated quantity. View Metrics - It displays the allocation metrics with sales history and contribution by location or by size and color. Action Buttons Following are the action buttons available on the page. Field Description Previous Click this button to navigate to the previous page of records. Next Click this button to navigate to the next page of records. Export Click to export the list of attributes. The file gets downloaded to your system. See Export for more information. Recalculate Click this button to recalculate based on strategy. Modify Method Click this button to open the method selection popup, where the user can change the method for allocation. Save Click this button to save the changes. Submit Click this button to submit for approval. Approve Click this button to approve. Release Click this button to release. Deselect Click this button to clear the selected records. Mass Update Click this button to perform a mass update for all selected records. The Allocation Adjustment window opens where you can make changes to the Allocated Quantity and choose to apply this update on frozen locations as well. Configure View Click  icon to view the Maintenance View Configuration window. Freeze Click this button to freeze the allocation of selected 'Locations'. - This icon indicates that the location is frozen. Note: if a user selects a location that is already frozen for freeze, it's not an error, and the destination will continue to be frozen. The freeze will stay in effect till it's either manually unfrozen, or the supply status is changed. If supply available qty is updated to less than sum (Frozen qtys), allocations are removed and Supply set back to Unallocated. The Supply will be recalculated next time Allocation engine runs, or can be recalculated manually. Unfreeze Click this button to unfreeze the allocation of selected 'Locations'. View Segments Click  icon to view the Inventory Segments By Channel window. Users can view quantities allocated to each channel for a given supply. Retail channel includes Retail hold back amounts and amounts allocated to Stores. Channel quantities include amounts held back for the specified channel and units allocated to virtual locations with the specified channel. Unallocated is the amount of available inventory which is neither held back nor allocated. Evaluate Transfers Click Evaluate Transfers button to recalculate overstock supplies. Note: This button appears only when OVERSTOCK supplies are selected. If any regular supplies (PO/ASN/On Hand) are selected, this button will not be displayed. The Evaluate Transfers pop-up window displays providing two options. The selected option determines which overstock supplies are processed. The first option calculates suggested transfer quantities, considering one supply at a time and only the overstock supplies selected. The second option calculates all overstock supplies for the same product, together to suggest best sourcing. options for Stores with a need. Overstock supplies in Unallocated, Suggested, Rejected, and Submitted status will be re-calculated. Select the desired option and click Apply. The overstock supply is processed and the latest transfer quantities are suggested. Delete Click Delete button to delete overstock supplies. Note: This button appears only when OVERSTOCK supplies are selected. If any regular supplies (PO/ASN/On Hand) are selected, this button will not be displayed. A warning message will be displayed as below. Click Yes to delete selected overstock supplies. Note: Overstock supply will not be re-evaluated until on-hand inventory is updated. PO based Allocation Indicator Users can allocate ASN’s using the ratios in which related purchase orders or allocated. This will ensure that the manual changes done for PO allocation are retailed while allocating the ASN’s. When we have ASN’s related to POs, which are manually allocated for a Supply of Type and PO status is in open, submitted, and approved. Typically, ASN is interfaced (created) first for existing PO whose allocation is manually changed, then the PO gets cancelled and ASN’s will be allocated based on the POs allocation proportion (system-based allocation is not considered). New indicators are added in allocation maintenance and also in corresponding tiles in Suggested, Submitted, and Approved allocation screens. Note: Only first ASN is allocated using PO ratios. Any subsequent ASNs related to the same PO are allocated using system suggested allocation. Rejection Notes This button appears only for the allocation rejection notes. Click   icon. The Allocation Rejection Note pop-up window displays. The user can view the trail of submission and rejection notes/codes by manager and allocator along with the timestamp and manager and allocator names. View Inventory Performance Click View Inventory Performance button to navigate Inventory Performance Analytics page. (Review Aggregate Plan) Click Review Aggregate Plan button to navigate to the Aggregate Plan detailed popup screen. This screen helps the user to View and Edit Aggregate Plan Metrics for selected Supply. The manager and admin can modify the Adjusted Qty value for the lowest location hierarchy level. Hover the mouse over this icon    to view the calculation formula for the Remaining Qty 1 and Remaining Qty 2 fields. These fields are added to account for inventory adjustments at the store. The following formulas are used to calculate. Remaining Qty 1= Adjusted Qty - ReleasedUpToDate - FinalAllocationQty Remaining Qty 2 = Adjusted Qty - Sales - OnHand - OnOrder - FinalAllocationQty Partial Submit When the first co-allocator (Team) submits the supply till the submission by the last co-allocator (Other Teams), the supply will be in partially submitted status. The info icon will be displayed only if the supply has team information. Hover the mouse over this icon   , it will display the details of the submission status (Team, Submitted By, and date and time). Note: If the Submitted By column is empty, it indicates that a particular team has yet to take action. If there are no other allocators (Team) yet to submit, then the supply will be marked as Submitted. Hover the mouse over this icon   , it will display the details of the submission status (Team, Submitted By, and date and time). Line Id Displays line id attribute for the future supplies. Users can identify same items with different ids in same PO/ASN. Note: Line Id will display only for future supplies(PO/ASN) and not for on-Hand. Approval Confirmation This dialog box enables users to confirm their action when approving a supply from the Allocation Maintenance screen. Note: Please refer to Suggested, Submitted, Approved, and Rejected Allocation for more information.