# Allocators Console

**Permalink:** allocatorconsole
**Content Length:** 19,348 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:11.061500

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process &amp; Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Dashboards ››Allocators Console Allocators Console &nbsp;I&nbsp;Next &nbsp; OverviewFilter SectionKPI SectionData Visualization SectionWorklist Section Overview The Allocators Console is a dashboard that offers an overview of key metrics related to allocation status. It provides insights into suggested allocations for an allocator, along with performance data for all SKUs under their responsibility. This screen is divided into four sections: Filter Section: A collapsible filter on the left allows the allocator to select products and source locations of interest. The filter conditions set here affect all other sections. KPI Section: A carousel-style section that displays a list of key performance indicators (KPIs). These KPIs include actual performance metrics for allocated inventory, as well as estimated KPIs for the suggested allocations. Data Visualization Section: This section presents graphical representations of allocation statuses and metrics for allocations in progress. It also helps the user identify key products that need to be allocated due to low in-stock percentages, especially during the in-season period. Worklist Section: A list of allocations organized by status, allowing the user to review and manage them. Filter Section This section allows allocators to apply filters based on the following attributes. Department Class Subclass Source Location ID Users will have the option to set default filters that are automatically applied to the dashboard each time they log in. This ensures a personalized experience by saving filter preferences for future sessions. KPI Section This section provides a summary of key metrics, including Estimated Sell-Through, In-Stock Levels, Days of Supply, Over-Allocation, and Under-Allocation, based on the selected season (Current/Future). Data Visualization Section Largest Allocations By Style This chart gives information about the allocated quantity for each style grouped with the status. Hovering over each bar will display a tooltip showing the exact quantity value. Clicking on a toolbar will trigger a &quot;View List&quot; action, which allows users to drill down further by navigating to the Allocates Supplies screen with the relevant filters applied. Allocations by Status This chart displays information about the allocated quantity for each status. Users can click on any bar to view more details and use the &quot;View List&quot; button to navigate to the Allocated Supplies screen. Allocations by Season Start Date This chart displays the information about the allocated quantity based on the season&#39;s week start date and is also grouped by status.&nbsp;Users can similarly click on any bar to see more information and use the &quot;View List&quot; button and navigate to the Allocated supplies screen. Future supply Allocation Status This chart displays the allocated quantity based on the expected delivery week start date, grouped by supply status. Users can click on any bar to view more details and use the &quot;View List&quot; button to navigate to the Allocated Supplies screen for further information. Allocation for Out Of Stock Styles This chart gives information about the out of stock count for each style. Inventory Segments(Quantity) This chart provides information about the inventory (quantity) available on each channel. Sales by Fulfillment type This chart provides information about sales metrics in a weekly bucket grouped by the fulfillment type. &nbsp; Inventory Segments (Value) This chart provides information about the inventory (in terms of currency value) available on each channel. Worklist Section This shows a list of allocation statuses with nonzero allocated quantities for the items and locations managed by the allocator. Users can click on any status to navigate to the Unallocated/Allocated Supplies screen, with the corresponding filters applied.