# Overview

**Permalink:** allocation-overview-2
**Content Length:** 8,197 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:37:45.822367

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process &amp; Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Allocation ››Overview Overview Next About AllocationWhy Allocation?Allocation Vs ReplenishmentHow Does Allocation Work?Terminologies About Allocation Allocation is a process that determines the distribution of supply in the network. This distribution is based on the expected demand at the stores and also includes reserving inventory in the DCs for the demand from E-commerce and other virtual channels. Expected demand could be derived from the actual sales or the planned sales based on the classification of the Products, Short Life Cycle, or Long Life Cycle products. Allocation is primarily focused on Short Life Cycle&nbsp;(Fashion) products that typically have a limited repeatable sales history and are often a one-time buying opportunity.&nbsp; &nbsp; Note:&nbsp;Allocation does not&nbsp;control the procurement of supply. &nbsp; Why Allocation? Inventory distribution is managed by two types of solutions; replenishment and allocation. Allocation is typically used for the following types of products: New products Seasonal items Test items The following are the characteristics of these products: Short lifecycle Long lead times No demand history available at the SKU level Due to the short lifecycle of these products, it is difficult to compute an item or item-location&nbsp;level forecast that can predict the expected demand for these products. Because of the long lead time, buying or sourcing is done&nbsp;upfront for these products and there is no or limited opportunity for reordering these products from the vendors. The allocation provides a framework for the users to configure demand variables and define a set of business rules to manage the distribution of these products. &nbsp; Allocation Vs Replenishment Replenishment Allocation Generally used for items like groceries, core items with a long lifecycle. Generally used for Hi-fashion items, seasonal items, and test items, having a short lifecycle. Lead time for buying/sourcing is short. Lead time for buying/sourcing is long. Sufficient demand history is available at Item/Item-location level. No history is available at Item/Item-location level. Need computation based on the forecast. Need computation based on the combination of forecast, planned, and actual sales. Supply chain planning is driven by customer need. Supply chain planning is driven by financial goals. Buying and distribution based on demand pull. Buying and distribution based on financial goals (Push distribution). Fulfillment on a regular basis Fulfillment is required at a different stage of the item&nbsp;lifecycle. &nbsp; &nbsp; How Does Allocation Work? &nbsp; Terminologies It is recommended to understand the below terminologies that will be commonly used in this guide. Terminology Description Lead time Lead time in inventory management is&nbsp;the time difference between when an order is placed to replenish inventory and when the order is received. Replenishment Replenishment is&nbsp;the process of restocking shelves in stores with inventory received from suppliers. KPI Key performance indicator. A business metric, which is an indicator of business performance. Forecast Sale Sale values of the items are computed based on the historical sales that have occurred for the item over a period.&nbsp; Business Rules &nbsp;A regulation that defines or restricts actions within a system or an organization