# Allocation Rejection Codes

**Permalink:** allocation-rejection-codes
**Content Length:** 8,213 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:31.468603

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Configurations&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Allocation ››Allocation Rejection Codes Allocation Rejection Codes &nbsp; Allocation Rejection CodesCreating a&nbsp;Rejection CodeEditing a Rejection CodeDeleting a Rejection CodeField DescriptionAction Buttons &nbsp; This page enables the user to configure a set of rejection codes as per the business requirement.&nbsp;The manager and system admin can view and edit this screen. Allocators can specify allocation submission notes to enable the manager&nbsp;to review and approve/reject an allocation. Managers can review an allocation along with submission notes and reject the allocation by selecting an appropriate allocation rejection code along with rejection notes. &nbsp; Both allocators and managers can review the trail of submission and rejection notes along with rejection codes. Indicators for rejection notes are displayed&nbsp;in the allocation maintenance screen and corresponding tiles in rejected allocation screen. &nbsp; Filters Rejection Code Creating a&nbsp;Rejection Code &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;To create a new Rejection Code: &nbsp; Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Configurations&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Allocation&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Allocation Rejection Codes. Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Click&nbsp;Create&nbsp;to view the&nbsp;Rejection Code&nbsp;window. Enter the Rejection Code and specify the Description for rejection. Click the&nbsp;Save button. All mandatory fields are denoted with *. Editing a Rejection Code &nbsp; You can edit the attributes of a&nbsp;Rejection Code using one of the below&nbsp;procedures: &nbsp; Swipe-out List Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Configurations&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Allocation&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Allocation Rejection Codes Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Select the required record. Swipe-out the menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Edit. In the edit&nbsp;Rejection Code&nbsp;window, modify the required fields. Click&nbsp;Save to save the modified rejected details. Edit View Select the required rejected record card. The action buttons are displayed in the footer section. Click&nbsp;Edit&nbsp;to view the edit&nbsp;Rejection Code&nbsp;window. Click&nbsp;Save to save the modified rejected details. Details View Select the required record card and you can view the action buttons displayed on the footer section. Click&nbsp;Details&nbsp;from the action button, to view the rejection code details. &nbsp; Deleting a Rejection Code Admin or managers can delete this. The rejection code records can be deleted by following one of the below procedures: &nbsp; Swipe-out List Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Configurations&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Allocation&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Allocation Rejection Codes. Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Swipe-out the menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts as &#39;Deletion of rejection code is irreversible&#39;. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the rejection code. Delete Select the required record card. The footer section with action buttons is displayed. Select&nbsp;Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts as &#39;Deletion of rejection code is irreversible&#39;. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the rejection&nbsp;code. &nbsp; Field Description Following are the field descriptions of the attributes available on the screen. &nbsp; Field &nbsp; Description &nbsp; Rejection Code Specifies the rejection code. Description Specifies the description for rejection. &nbsp; Action Buttons Following are the action buttons available on the screen. &nbsp; Create Opens the&nbsp;Rejected Code&nbsp;window.&nbsp; Deselect Clears the selected records. Edit Opens the relevant&nbsp;Rejected Code&nbsp;window. Delete Deletes the selected record. Select All Rows Selects all the rows of records on the screen. Export Exports the list of rejected code attributes, the file will be downloaded onto your system. View&nbsp;Export&nbsp;for more information. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;