# Allocation Submission and Approval

**Permalink:** allocation-submission-and-approval
**Content Length:** 17,417 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:37:53.430201

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process &amp; Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Allocation&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Allocation Review &amp; Approval ››Allocation Submission and Approval Allocation Submission and Approval &nbsp; Previous&nbsp;I&nbsp;Next OverviewProcess FlowConfigurationExample&nbsp; Overview The inventory system notifies the allocation system whenever there is an inventory update. On receiving this notification, the allocation system will allocate the inventory supply based on the user defined business rules. Once the allocation system has suggested allocation quantities, the process of allocation submission and approval begins. This process will help the user/allocator in reviewing the system generated allocations and setting up policies for automatic submission and approval. Users can make adjustments to the system&#39;s suggested qualities if any and submit the allocations for further approval. Supervisors can further review the submitted allocations and approve them. Allocator can choose different ways for submission and approval. Auto submission and Approval Manual review system Auto submission and approval is mainly used for low value items as they do not require much manual intervention and the specific rules/conditions can be established. However, for the high value and the larger volume, items need to be manually reviewed by the allocator and the supervisor for submission and approval. Example - The supply order with 20 allocated quantity for men&#39;s belts can be setup with few conditions for auto approval, whereas the order with 3000 allocated quantity for men&rsquo;s formal wear needs manual review submission. &nbsp; Process Flow &nbsp; Inventory update: Allocation process starts once the allocation system receives a notification about an inventory update. The detailed information is provided to the allocation application through an inventory system which creates the supply event. Supply events can be identified as New PO, ASN & onhand change. Trigger allocation: The notification from the inventory system about an inventory update will trigger the allocation process. The system then allocates the supply based on the user defined business rules. Evaluate if ASA policy is available: For the auto submission approval process, the system evaluates if the policy is available for supply. Policies contain the rules or the criteria for evaluating allocations for automatic submission and approval. Allocated supply satisfy the Auto Submission Criteria? If the ASA policy is available, the system evaluates if the supplies satisfy the rules/conditions specified to the order. If yes, the allocation will be automatically submitted and/or approved If not, the allocation will be manually reviewed, submitted and/or approved. Manually review and submission: If the supply doesn&rsquo;t have any policy or does not fulfill the submission criteria, then the process has to go through the manual review by an allocator. Allocators can make changes like modifying the method, changing the quantity allocated and updating the holdback percentage if necessary. Allocators need to access the Allocated Supplies UI to review the allocations and submit Submission in the case of Co-allocators: If there are any co-allocators available (Multiple allocators in Allocators Assignment) then at least one member from each team needs to submit to change the supply status to &ldquo;Submitted&rdquo;. If no allocators have&nbsp;submitted, then supply remains in &ldquo;Allocated&rdquo; status. If at-least one allocator has submitted, then the status changes to &ldquo;Partially Submitted&rdquo; status. Allocated supply is submitted for review: On satisfying the auto submission criteria, allocated supply is submitted for review to the manager/supervisor. Orders submitted by the allocators, the allocations will then be reviewed by the supervisor. Allocated supply satisfy auto approval criteria: The supervisor may set up a criteria for automatic approval. The system will then verify if the supply order fulfills the conditions. Manual approval: If the allocation does not qualify the criteria for auto approval, supervisors will have to manually review and approve the allocations. Allocated supply is approved: On automatic or manual approval, the status of allocated supply is updated as approved. Configuration Auto-submit approval policy set-up: Users can set up the policies with criteria under allocation to UI. Each user can create only one &ldquo;Auto Approval Policy&rdquo;. A manager or allocator can see only the policy they have created, and a person with an &ldquo;Admin&rdquo; role can see the auto approval policies for all users. In a single auto approval policy, users can add as many rules as needed. Select User id - User ID needs to be selected for&nbsp;policy creation. Specify rules for auto approval - Auto-submit approval criteria ID - The user has to provide a unique name for each set of rules/conditions. Description - Any additional information can be provided in the description by the user. Auto-submit approval criteria type - The user needs to select any one of the given criteria when applying conditions. Atleast one set of conditions in a policy needs to be selected as &ldquo;Review&rdquo;. Alert - If the conditions are not fulfilled by the allocated supply, the supply will still be processed with an alert notification. Review - If the conditions are not fulfilled by the allocated supply, the process will stop for review. Auto approval conditions - Users can group the list of conditions at any attribute listed with a value. Grants &nbsp; Grant &nbsp; Resource ID &nbsp; Allocator Assignments aiui::ai-allocation::menu::allocatorAssignment Auto Submit-Approval Policies aiui::ai-allocation::menu::AutoApprovalPolicy Allocation Job Schedules aiui::ai-allocation::menu::allocationJobSchedules &nbsp; Example&nbsp; Auto-submit approval set-up &nbsp; &nbsp; Attributes &nbsp; Allocator assignment LocationId- SoutheDakota-DC&nbsp; Allocator id - Allocator1 Approver id - Manager1 Item Hierarchy level 1 (Dept) - Accessories Item Hierarchy level 2 (Class) - Belt Item Hierarchy level 3 (Subclass) - Formals Auto-submit approval policy supply.Product Class = Belts supply.Source Location Id = SoutheDakota-DC supply.aggregateAllocationMetric.Final Allocation Quantity &lt;= 50 &nbsp; Let&#39;s go through some scenarios based on the above example. Senario Supply details Auto submit & approval Criteria satisfied Senario 1 Mens Shirt White - Small Size Location Id - SoutheDakota-DC Allocation quantity - 70 No Supply not from Item Class - Belts & Allocation quantity is more than 50, and does&nbsp;not fulfill the policy conditions. Senario 2 Brown Belt - Medium Size Item Hierarchy level 3 (Subclass) - Casuals Location Id - SoutheDakota-DC Allocation quantity - 50&nbsp; Yes All the conditions are fulfilled.&nbsp; Senario 3&nbsp; Black Belt - Size Small Location Id - SoutheDakota-DC Allocation quantity - 45 Yes All the conditions are fulfilled. Senario 4 Brown Belt - Medium Size Location Id - SoutheDakota-DC Allocation quantity - 100 No Allocation quantity is more than 50, and&nbsp;does not fulfill the policy conditions.&nbsp;