# Allocation Methods For Need Computation

**Permalink:** allocation-methods-for-need-computation
**Content Length:** 12,107 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:37:51.730120

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process &amp; Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Allocation&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Allocation Configuration ››Allocation Methods For Need Computation Allocation Methods &nbsp;I&nbsp;Next OverviewProcess FlowMethod BuildingExamples of how allocation methods are used to compute needs:Related Articles Overview Inventory allocation is aligned to the inventory need at the stores to which the inventory is to be allocated. Different retailers have different ways to compute the store needs. The need may be based on historical sales (metric data) or sales by fulfillment type or The need may be forward-looking sales (sales plan data), demand forecast or a combination of these data inputs. The need calculation is a method that determines how much inventory an item-location will have at the store at any given time. The allocation strategy in MAA uses this need when calculating how much to allocate to a given item location from the DC supply. MAA allows users to configure their own methods of need computation as per their business requirements. All the above use cases of method computation are supported in MAA. &nbsp; Process Flow &nbsp; &nbsp; Select Input type for demand variable: Users can select metric data, plan data, forecast data or a combination of these as an input to determine expected demand for need computation. Select Input for demand variable: Based on the input type selected, users can select a metric or plan from where the input value should be fetched. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;For example, sales, BOPIS sales, Buy Plan, and&nbsp;assortment Plan. Select time period for the input data: Users can select the time start and number of weeks of data of the selected input to be considered in computing the need. Select aggregation type:&nbsp;Users can select the aggregation type like sum, average, minimum or maximum to aggregate the data over the selected time period. Add Lead time: If add lead time is selected as true, the system will automatically add lead time of the destination store to the number of weeks before need is computed. Select Multiplier: Users can select if they want to apply a multiplier on the computed need over the selected time period to arrive at the final demand they wish to use for calculating allocated inventory for a store. Method Building Allocation methods can be build in two ways: &nbsp; 1) Expression Builder: Users will have to specify the above configurations in the respective fields in the expression builder. Based on the input type selected, the inputs will be displayed in the drop-down. &nbsp; &nbsp; Note: Method building using expression builder does not support the creation of conditional methods. For example, use the need based on last year metric with 50% weight and need using this year metric with 50% weight. 2) Manual Method Building: In this method builder, users will have to specify the above configurations in the form of an expression. &nbsp; Example: var RetailNeed = METRIC.VALUE(itemLocation, &#39;Sales&#39;, currentBusinessDate, -52, 04, false, AggregationType.SUM);return new NeedResult(product.productId, location.locationId, RetailNeed); &nbsp; Note:- In a manual method builder, users can configure both simple and conditional expressions for need computation as per their business requirements. Examples of how allocation methods are used to compute needs: Week Wk: -52 Wk: -51 Wk : -50 Wk: -49 Wk 1 (Current Business Date) Wk2 Wk3 Wk4 Wk 5 Metric (Sales) 10 15 20 10 10 15 25 20 15 Assortment Plan (Planned Sales) &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 15 20 20 25 20 &nbsp; Example 1:&nbsp;Need computation using last year metric. &nbsp; var RetailNeed = METRIC.VALUE(itemLocation, &#39;Sales&#39;, currentBusinessDate, -52, 04, false, AggregationType.SUM);return new NeedResult(product.productId, location.locationId, RetailNeed); &nbsp; Need = 55 Units (Sum of sales from Wk -52 to -49) &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; Example 2:&nbsp;Need computation using this year metric. &nbsp; var RetailNeed = METRIC.VALUE(itemLocation, &#39;Sales&#39;, currentBusinessDate,0, 04, false, AggregationType.SUM);return new NeedResult(product.productId, location.locationId, RetailNeed); &nbsp; Need = 70 Units (Sum of sales from Wk 1 to 4) &nbsp; Example 3:&nbsp;Need Computation (Use Lead time = True, Lead time =1) &nbsp; var RetailNeed = METRIC.VALUE(itemLocation, &#39;Sales&#39;, currentBusinessDate,0, 04, false, AggregationType.SUM);return new NeedResult(product.productId, location.locationId, RetailNeed); &nbsp; Need = 75 Units (Sum of sales from Wk 2 to 5) &nbsp; Example 4:&nbsp;Need computation using planned sales. &nbsp; var need = PLAN.VALUE(itemLocation, &#39;AssortmentPlan&#39;, &#39;Plan_Sales&#39;, currentBusinessDate, 0, 04, false, AggregationType.SUM);return new NeedResult (product.productId, location.locationId, need); &nbsp; Need = 80 Units (Sum of planned sales from Wk 1 to 4) &nbsp; Example 5: Need computation - Conditional Method (Need is based on 60% weight for Last year metric and 40%&nbsp;on this year metric) &nbsp; Var needCY = METRIC. VALUE (productLocation, &#39;Sales&#39;, currentBusinessDate, 0, 4, false, AggregationType.SUM) Var needLY&nbsp;= METRIC. VALUE (productLocation, &#39;Sales&#39;, currentBusinessDate, -52, 4, false, AggregationType.SUM) &nbsp; return new NeedResult (product.productId, location.locationId, 0.6 * needCY+ 0.4 * needLY); &nbsp; Need = 0.6 * 70 + 0.4 *55 = 64 Units &nbsp; Related Articles Overview &nbsp;