# Apply Value Added Service 

**Permalink:** applyvas
**Content Length:** 7,430 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:35:20.931693

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Customer Engagement&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Attributes ››Apply Value Added Service Applying Value Added Services Order line services are Value Added services that are associated with the ordered item. While creating a customer order, you can choose from the different services available for an item. Note: The Apply VAS permission is required to add/modify services to an item. Adding Order Line Service Charges To add the order line service charges, perform the following steps: On the Item Search page,&nbsp;search and select an item.&nbsp; After you&nbsp;add&nbsp;the items to the shopping cart and complete the checkout process, the&nbsp;Call Center&nbsp;page is displayed. Click Add services against the item for which you want to add the VAS. The Order Line Service pop-up window&nbsp;that&nbsp;provides the system configured services offered for an item&nbsp;is displayed. Select the check box for the required service, and then select the service option offered for the chosen service from the drop-down list. On selecting the service option, the corresponding charges are displayed. Click&nbsp;Save&nbsp;to apply VAS for the item. Overriding Order line service charges To override charges incurred by VAS on the selected&nbsp;item, perform the following steps: On the Item Search page,&nbsp;search and select an item.&nbsp; After you&nbsp;add&nbsp;the items to the shopping cart and complete the checkout process, the&nbsp;Call Center&nbsp;page is displayed. Click the&nbsp;Service&nbsp;link for the item for which you want to override the price. The&nbsp;Order Line Services&nbsp;pop-up window is displayed. Click the icon against the service for which you want to override the price. In the&nbsp;New Charges&nbsp;text box, enter the new price. In the Reason&nbsp;drop-down list, select a reason for overriding the order line service charges. In the Comments text box, enter the appropriate reason for overriding the order line service charges. You can view details of the previous overrides, if any. Click Save to save the changes. Label an Item as&nbsp;Gift Sending items as a&nbsp;gift is a common VAS option. To label an item as a gift, perform the following steps:&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; On the Item Search page,&nbsp;search and select an item.&nbsp; After you&nbsp;add&nbsp;the items to the shopping cart and complete the checkout process, the&nbsp;Call Center&nbsp;page is displayed. Click the Yes&nbsp;option next to the Gift field of the item. Click the &nbsp;icon to add the order line notes. This is used to enter messages and other&nbsp;notes for the gift. In the Notes pop-up window, click the + icon. In the Note Type drop-down list, select a Note Type, for example: Gift From, birthday message. In the Note text box, enter the appropriate note. Click Save to apply the order line notes for the item. Note: Charge Display Name have to be set&nbsp;as per the VasOptionId for the respective VASType