# Apply Appeasements 

**Permalink:** applyappeasement
**Content Length:** 6,258 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:35:18.592163

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Customer Engagement&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Attributes ››Apply Appeasements Applying Appeasements Appeasements are a policy of giving concessions or discounts on an order to customers. You can apply appeasements at both the order level and the item level. Once the appeasement is applied or removed, the total amount of the order is re-calculated. The appeasements are of the following types: Amt Off -&nbsp; A fixed value appeasement. This value should not exceed the order total. The maximum currency value that can be applied as an appeasement on the order is displayed below the Amt Off text box. For example, max $25.99 Perc Off - A percentage value appeasement. The maximum percentage of dollars that can be applied as an appeasement on the order is displayed below the Perc Off text box. For example, the text appears as&mdash; max% is 100.00 ($23.00) Note: Percentage appeasements are typically applied to the order as it exists at the time of application, and must be recalculated manually if the discount needs to be re-evaluated. This is especially in the case of the existence of other charges like shipping or other discounts. This is to say, the stage in the order life cycle to which a Perc Off appeasement is applied will affect the final value of the order to a small degree. Appeasements are also applied as&nbsp;header appeasement(order level)&nbsp;or a line appeasement(item level).&nbsp; Line Appeasements are applied only to one order line and has no effect on other order lines.&nbsp; Header Appeasements are applied to the order as a whole and are prorated across all order lines, weighted by item cost.&nbsp; Example: Consider $30 header appeasement applied to the order and prorated applied across&nbsp;3 order lines. Header $30 Appeasement Line 1 $50 Shipped $5 Prorated Appeasement Line 2 $150 Released $15 Prorated Appeasement Line 3 $100 Released $10 Prorated Appeasement &nbsp; To apply an appeasement at order level or item level, perform the following steps: On the Item Search page,&nbsp;search and select an item.&nbsp; After you&nbsp;add&nbsp;the items to the shopping cart and complete the checkout process, the&nbsp;Call Center&nbsp;page is displayed. In the&nbsp;Order Details section of the Call Center&nbsp;page, click&nbsp;Appeasements. The Appeasements pop-up window is displayed. Use the order line filter in the pop-up to narrow the order lines displayed.&nbsp; In the Appeasements pop-up window, choose one of the following options. For order-level appeasements, in the Applied Appeasements click Add. For line-level appeasements, in the Applied Appeasements section,&nbsp;click Add against each line for which you to apply appeasement. Select the type of appeasement that you want to apply from the following options: Amt Off Perc Off Flat Select a reason for applying an appeasement from the drop-down list, and then enter an appropriate description. Click the&nbsp;Apply&nbsp;button. The re-calculated values are displayed at the bottom of the page. You can view the Total Appeasement and Total Appeasement Value. Note: Appeasement transaction is controlled by &lsquo;Hold payment transaction till the confirmation&rsquo; flag in the Contact Center Configuration UI.&nbsp;When the &lsquo;Hold payment transaction till the confirmation&rsquo; is selected and appeasements are applied post shipment, it is&nbsp;required to click on the confirm changes to execute appeasement transactions.&nbsp;If &lsquo;Hold payment transaction till the confirmation&rsquo; is not selected and appeasements are applied post shipment, refund transactions will be executed immediately when the user clicks on the Apply button. &nbsp;