# Archive Purge Process

**Permalink:** archive-purge-process
**Content Length:** 7,990 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:36:05.987580

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Inventory & Fulfillment&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Order Fulfillment&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Fulfillment Archive/Purge ››Archive Purge Process Archive/Purging Process ArchivingPurgingServices When a fulfillment is completed, it can be archived or purged based on configuration. The Archiving/Purging process helps to maintain system performance at its peak. Archiving a fulfillment&nbsp;removes it&nbsp;from the active fulfillment database and adds it to the&nbsp;elastic search database. If&nbsp;needed, archived fulfillment&nbsp;can be looked up in the future using backend search APIs. Purging a&nbsp;fulfillment&nbsp;permanently removes it from the active fulfillment database. Purged fulfillments cannot be searched or restored. Note that a fulfillment can either be archived or purged. Note: It is recommended to Archive/Purge based on regular intervals depending on the volume of fulfillments. This helps maintain the system&#39;s health and performance, especially during peak season. Archiving If the fulfillment parameter is configured to&nbsp;&quot;Archive&quot; eligible fulfillments, then the following process is used to archive the fulfillment: Once fulfillments are shipped, picked up,&nbsp;or cancelled, the fulfillments are archived based on the configured time period. When a fulfillment is archived, it is moved from the active database schema to the archive index. Steps to achieve a fulfillment&nbsp;include: Once fulfillment is eligible to archive, the Fulfillment component sends a message to the Search component to archive it. The search component picks up the&nbsp;message and reaches out to the Fulfillment&nbsp;Component to get the latest copy of the fulfillment and index it. After indexing successfully, the search component sends an acknowledgement message for Fulfillment component to delete the fulfillment. The fulfillment component deletes the associated tasks and also deletes the documents from Document&nbsp;Management. Packages are archived with the fulfillment. The fulfillment is finally marked as archived in the Search component. Note: Documents include shipping labels, return labels and collates maintained in Document Management. Implications of archiving&nbsp;fulfillments Archived fulfillment cannot be looked up from the Store UI. Once archived, fulfillment is not available for SCI for reporting purposes. Documents and tasks/task details associated with archived fulfillment cannot be restored. Fulfillment audit information is also archived.&nbsp; &nbsp; Search component APIs are&nbsp;available to get the list of archived fulfillments&nbsp;for a specific month/year (based on the fulfillment&#39;s last updated date). Using the API, it is also possible to fetch a specific list of archived fulfillments based on the queries.&nbsp;The API&nbsp;will get the entire fulfillment object from the archived database. &nbsp;Additionally, an API&nbsp;is also available to get the fulfillment index (fulfillment template with a few key attributes) from the archived database.&nbsp; API Payload /searchv2/api/searchv2/searchv2/archivefulfillment:{{organization}}:{{year}}:{{month}}/fulfillment where organization, year and month can be specific as per your needs &nbsp; { &quot;_source&quot;: [ {{Field1}}, {{Field2}}, ... ], &quot;query&quot;: { &quot;ids&quot; : { &quot;type&quot; : &quot;fulfillment&quot;, &quot;values&quot; : [&quot;{{fulfillmentId}}&quot;, &quot;{{fulfillmentId}}&quot;] } } } &nbsp; &nbsp; The archived fulfillment&nbsp;indices are deleted from the elastic search after 31 days. Once the index is deleted, those fulfillments are permanently deleted and can no longer be searched or restored. Purging If the fulfillment parameter is configured to&nbsp;&quot;Purge&quot; eligible fulfillments, then the following process is used to purge the fulfillment: Once fulfillments are&nbsp;Shipped,&nbsp;Picked Up, or Canceled, the fulfillments are purged after&nbsp;the configured time period.&nbsp; Steps to purge a fulfillment&nbsp;include: Once fulfillment is eligible to purge, the Fulfillment component sends a message to the Search component to purge the fulfillment index. The search component picks up the&nbsp;message and permanently deletes the fulfillment index. Fulfillment component permanently deletes the fulfillment, associated tasks and also deletes the documents from Document Management. Note: Documents include Shipping labels, Return labels and Collate maintained in Document Management. Implications of purging&nbsp;fulfillments Purged fulfillment&nbsp;cannot be looked up or restored from the Store UI or backend.&nbsp; Once purged, fulfillment is not available for SCI for reporting purposes. Documents and tasks/task details associated with purged fulfillment&nbsp;cannot be restored. Services The&nbsp;APIs listed in the following table are referenced in this document. Refer to the API documentation for additional details on&nbsp;each service. Service Component Group&nbsp; Service Endpoint Search data Search search-control /search/api/search/search/{indexName}/{indexType}