# Attribute Inheritance 

**Permalink:** attribute-inheritance
**Content Length:** 6,462 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:37:16.568449

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process &amp; Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Feed - Master Data ››Attribute Inheritance Attribute Inheritance &nbsp;I&nbsp; OverviewProcess FlowConfiguration Overview Attribute inheritance in hierarchical data structures means that attributes defined at a higher level in the hierarchy are available to lower levels, unless overridden. To handle this effectively, you need to account for both direct attribute values and inherited values from parent entities. To get the value of an attribute defined at any level of entity hierarchy, consider the Item hierarchy path. Each attribute will be part of the Item and Item Inheritance Policy and each child entity will be a child of an Item and Item Inheritance Policy entity. &nbsp; ItemLocationSource/ItemLocation &rarr;&nbsp;Item/ItemInheritancePolicy &rarr; SourcingRelationship &rarr; Location/LocationInheritancePolicy &nbsp; For example: Attribute Line Cost will be defined at Item Location Source, Item Location, Location, and Location Inheritance Policy. Similarly, entity Handling Cost will be defined by child in Item Location, Location and LocationInheritancePolicy. So, we need to get the value of Line Cost or Handling Cost based on the pre-defined hierarchy path. &nbsp; Process Flow &nbsp; Each attribute or child entity must be included in at least one of the following entities: ItemLocationSource, ItemLocation, Item, SourcingRelationship, Location, or their respective policies, such as or LocationInheritancePolicy. Additionally, each child entity should have a prefix based on the entity name in its label, while at the policy level, it should be prefixed with the entity name and suffixed with &quot;Policy.&quot; For instance, the entity HandlingCost from ItemLocationFactors can be represented as LocationHandlingCost or LocationHandlingCostPolicy. Furthermore, every generated policy entity must implement the InheritancePolicy interface, its associated child policy filter entity should implement the InheritancePolicyFilterEntity interface, and the generated policy service class must implement the InheritancePolicyService interface. &nbsp; Attribute Inheritance Override - This is used to override the predefined hierarchy path for any attribute. &nbsp; Configuration &nbsp; To Get Item Location Factors, /api/itemlocation/itemlocation/itemLocationFactors&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; To&nbsp;Get Location With Inhertiance Details, /api/itemlocation/location/inheritanceDetails