# Australia

**Permalink:** australia
**Content Length:** 6,176 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:35:48.567798

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Point of Sale&rsaquo;&rsaquo;POS Classic Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;POS Classic Fiscalization and Globalization ››Australia Australia OverviewTax ConfigurationReceipt ConfigurationArchivingServices Overview Australia&#39;s&nbsp;main state institution engaged in economic and tax topics is the Australian Taxation Office. Regarding fiscalization rules, currently&nbsp;there are no specific laws or other regulations specifically dedicated to the topic.* However, the way of handling transactions and issuing receipts can be concluded from the explanations provided below. Language:&nbsp; English is the majority language of Australia today. Although English has no official legal status, it is the de facto official and national language. Australian English is a major variety of the language with a distinctive accent and lexicon and differs slightly from other varieties of English in grammar and spelling.&nbsp;Although there are no explicit legal requirements, it is assumed that the POS application should support English language as it is.&nbsp;the de facto official and national language of Australia.&nbsp; As per the receipts/invoices themselves, it is also expected that they are created in English.&nbsp; The locale can be configured as detailed in the&nbsp;localization configuration&nbsp;guide. Currency:&nbsp;The official currency of Belgium is &quot;Australian Dollar&quot;. The official currency code (ISO currency standard) is &quot;AUD&quot;.&nbsp; The currency denomination can be configured as detailed in the&nbsp;localization configuration&nbsp;guide. Tax Configuration Goods and services tax (GST) is a tax of 10% on most goods, services and other items sold or consumed in Australia. If your business is registered for GST, you have to collect this extra money (one-eleventh of the sale price) from your customers. You pay this to the Australian Taxation Office (ATO) when it&rsquo;s due.&nbsp; Tax Configuration:&nbsp;The information about configuring taxes&nbsp;is&nbsp;detailed in the&nbsp;localization configuration&nbsp;guide. Receipt Configuration A receipt is a conclusive document that confirms that payment has been made for a service/goods.&nbsp;A generated receipt needs to include: Company information Date and time of issue Australian business number (ABN) or Australian company number (ACN) of the seller&nbsp; Item description and prices Quantity Total amount paid and taxes paid separately Other standard receipt practices like StoreId, RegisterId, Receipt number do not harm. Additionally, best practice is also to include items. All additional information such as pictures, barcodes, QR codes, promotional messages, etc. can be included as there are no legal requirements. Receipt Configuration: Configuring receipts specific for a country&nbsp;is&nbsp;detailed in the&nbsp;localization configuration&nbsp;guide. Archiving Receipts and related documentation, such as sale orders and receipts, need to be stored for record-keeping and auditing purposes. In Australia, the ATO rule is currently 5 years. Work with services team&nbsp;organization&nbsp;if you want to&nbsp;use electronic document management systems for easy and efficient document storage and retrieval.&nbsp;Whether you keep printed or electronic records is up to you.&nbsp; Services There are no specific services exposed for Australia localization. &nbsp; &nbsp; * The fiscal guidelines and numbers (annual turn over, tax rates)&nbsp;are as of Aug-2024, which might be subjected to change as per local laws.