# Austria

**Permalink:** austria
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Store/Process & Configuration Guides/Point of Sale/POS Classic Guides/POS Classic Fiscalization and Globalization/Austria
**Content Length:** 36,410 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:03:22.898328

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Store››Process & Configuration Guides››Point of Sale››POS Classic Guides››POS Classic Fiscalization and Globalization ››Austria Austria OverviewTerminologyAustria Specific ConfigurationThird party Integration GuidelinesPre-requisite required in EFSTAPre-requisite on Finanz Online (FON)Austria Specific Functional FeaturesDEP ExportsError handlingResubmitting Offline TransactionsReceiptsSupported/Not Supported Features for AustriaServices Overview Austria requires a security system-based fiscal approach. All retailers must use a security device (SD) which is the heart of fiscalization in Austria together with DEP.  Every POS terminal and SD has to be reported to the tax authority via Finance online (FON) before the usage of terminals. Retailers are required to adhere to fiscalization regulations to ensure compliance with tax laws. The European Fiscal Standard Association (EFSTA) oversees this process, while Manhattan Active® Omni POS facilitates compliance by integrating with EFSTA. This integration ensures transparency, security, and compliance in transactions, thereby maintaining trust with customers and regulatory authorities alike. The EFSTA System serves as middleware to fulfill fiscal requirements for POS systems using a unified interface. To achieve this, Manhattan Active® Omni POS application submits data of completed transactions to the EFR (EFSTA Fiscal Register) service, with EFSTA acting as the central authority, ensuring the secure signing of transactions through Security Device (SD). Major steps for fiscalization in Austria include the following Mandatory usage of security devices for generating electronic signatures. Issuing customer receipt with QR code. Introduction of DEP –Electronic journal. Terminology RKSV - Cash security ordinance BAO - Federal tax Code (Bundesabgabenordnung) FON - Finance Online (Tax authority) DEP - Electronic journal OR Data Collection protocol (Datenerfassungsprotokoll) AES Key - Advanced Encryption Standard EFR-EFSTA Fiscal Register EFSTA-European Fiscal Standard Association SD - Security Device TL -Transaction Location TT -Transaction Terminal Austria Specific Configuration Below are the Manhattan Active® Omni POS application configurations required if the store is located in Austria. Business Flag configuration "EnableFiscal" should be enabled from the Fiscal Business Configuration MUP UI. Currency Configuration: Configure both the cart and the back office to work in the EUR currency code. For Backoffice to be set up as EUR currency, i.e. BO Store Configurations > Store Base Currency = EUR For Cart, use POS Store Configurations > Store Common Config > “Default Store Currency” = EUR Make sure that Store Currency (e.g. “EUR)” has all denominations set if counting is by denominations, via Backoffice > “Store Currency” and Currency Denomination configurations. Store Locale: To set up store locale, POS Store Configurations > Store Common Config >Default Store Locale= de-AT POS Tax Configuration : Configure Tax system as VAT by enabling “Primary Tax as Info” from POS Store Configurations > Store Common Config Order Configuration > Tax Engine -Set up the Tax engine for “mPOSConfig“ as “Vertex”. Order Configuration > Tax Engine -Set up the Tax engine for “mPOSConfig“ as “LocalTax” is also supported. For tax configurations setup, refer Local Tax guide. *VAT rates in Austria are as follows: Standard:20% Intermediate:13% Reduced rate 1: 10% Reduced rate 2: 5% Zero:0% Retailer Tax Id is required to be printed on the receipt, this can be added to the Fiscal Attributes using the provided payload below and API details. Retailer Tax Id Configuration API: {{url}}/backoffice/api/backoffice/fiscalAttributes/save HTTP Method: POST //Sample Request Payload// { "CountryId": "AT", "AttributeValue": "<value>", "AttributeName": "RetailerTaxId" } To update the register with TL ID and TT ID in FiscalConfig, please refer to the provided sample payload request and API details below to configure this mapping. Austria Register/Terminal UpdatesAPI : {{url}}/devicemanagement/api/devicemanagement/register/save HTT Method : POST // Sample Request to update the Fiscal config// { "FiscalConfig": { "SecurityDeviceId": "<TL>", //TL means location that needs to be created in EFSTA "ClientId": "<TT>" //TT means Terminal or RegisterId that needs to be created in EFSTA }, "RegisterNumber": "<RegisterNumber>", //MAO register Id "StoreID": "<Location ID>" //MAO location Id } Third party Integration Guidelines Integrating a third-party EFSTA solution with Manhattan Active® Omni POS system involves several key configurations to ensure seamless functionality and compliance with fiscal regulations. Retailers are required to configure the following details in the KV store for fiscalization purposes: FiscalServiceProvider=EFSTA (Default value is EFSTA) Fiscal.Config = [ { "url": "https://efr.efsta.net", "apiKey": "<APIKey>", "apiSecret": "<APISecret>", "countryId": "AT" } These configurations include the URL of the EFSTA service, API key, API secret, and country ID of Austria (AT). Retailers must update the API Key and API Secret with the value after their initial setup in EFSTA. These details are essential for establishing a connection with EFSTA and facilitating fiscalization processes within the POS system. The below parameters need to be configured in the KV store to accommodate any third-party service provider. This flexibility allows retailers to seamlessly integrate with any third party fiscalization service provider as needed. Service Provider URL API key API secret Country Id Pre-requisite required in EFSTA For Austria fiscalization, retailers need to undertake several pre-configuration settings within EFSTA. Firstly, they must have a certificate with EFSTA. During the setup of the EFR, TL ID (Transaction Location) and TT ID (Transaction Terminal) will be assigned to the EFR, and these should be created manually using APIs EFR will be assigned with a certificate and TL and TT will be mapped to the register and store location in the Manhattan Active® Omni POS system. API details to create a TL and TT APi signature: https://efr.efsta.net/{{api_key}}/cfg?TL=1005&TT=101 <Cfg> <Cmp Nam="Manhattan Associates TestLab" label="Manhattan Associates TestLab" Ctry="AT" TaxId="ATU57780814" /> <Loc TL="1005" label="Metro-W" Adr="123 Long Road" Zip="12345" City="Metropolis" /> <Trm TT="101" SW="super-POS V3.4.5" /> </Cfg> Pre-requisite on Finanz Online (FON) Creating a FON account involves below steps and login FON Account needs to be created. Use the below documentation for reference. Cash register needs to be registered on FON. Test BMF test app to check start of the document. Each Security Device and Cash Register has to be reported to the fiscal authorities through FinanzOnline. During the initialization of a Cash Register, a zero-cash receipt is created. This receipt is then validated through FinanzOnline. This is done to make sure that the financial authorities can verify the signatures created during the fiscalization process. During development, FON was not necessary. This was already taken care of by EFSTA for development work, sharing the document below as reference. Retailer to work with EFSTA directly to set up this account and integrate it on the EFSTA portal FON documentation EFTSA documentation link: https://public.efsta.net/efr/#/AT/ Austria Specific Functional Features DEP Exports DEP (Datenerfassungsprotokoll) stands for Data Collection Protocol. Its an event log file that contains the cash transactions with receipt content completely and chronologically in a continuous manner in real time. Dep must be created by every POS and one POS can have only one DEP. All cash transactions will be signed and stored. DEP need not be exported on regular basis, but it can be requested on need basis. The DEP retention period is 7 years. It must be possible to export DEP any time and upon request in JSON. For the export of DEP it must be possible to select and define the range of export (from date to date). For Manhattan Active® Omni POS application, DEP is created by making a request in EFSTA or by API call. It is stored in EFSTA for Archived Austria fiscal timelines. EFSTA API to export DEP file to local: https://efr.efsta.net/{{api_key}}/control/export?RN=01_1&from=2024-03-26&till=2024-03-26 EFSTA Portal: Retailers can your EFSTA EFR portal to export the DEP file for a given TL and TT combination for a given date range. DEP exports are not human readable, Auditors have tools in place to extract the export file data and validate. Error handling The Manhattan Active® Omni POS application manages failures encountered during the fiscalization process of transactions. Errors can occur during submission to the EFR or while awaiting a response. In such instances, the application updates the status to "Failed" and generates a receipt without fiscal signature details, marking it as "Security device failed". During the Reconciliation Job, the system will look for failed transactions and retrieve fiscal information from the EFR to verify transaction data availability. If present, it updates fiscalized data in the Manhattan database. However, if transaction data is absent in the EFR, the system resubmits the transaction for fiscalization. This re-sending process occurs during the job reconciliation process, which is scheduled to run every hour. If the Manhattan Active® Omni POS system successfully communicates with EFR, but if there is no active connection to the signature/seal creation unit, the note "Security device failed" or “Sicherheitseinrichtung ausgefallen“ must be attached to the receipt. Once the signature/seal creation unit is back online, all the offline transactions need to be re-submitted to EFR. Resubmitting Offline Transactions If Security Device i.e EFR is not reachable from Manhattan Active® Omni POS system, then an offline transaction can be created with a label like “Security device failed“. How to handle offline transactions When cash register cannot reach EFR, i.e. EFR is not available, Label receipts as "Security device failed" or “Sicherheitseinrichtung ausgefallen“. Systematically, Manhattan Active® Omni POS system records and queues all the offline transactions. Re-send it to EFR for signing once EFR is available again, i.e. scheduled process as part of abandoned order job. Manual process to be taken care by the retailers. Report the cash register from “Initialized” to “Outage” state if it's out of order for more than 48 hours on FON website. Move the cash register from “Outage” to “Initialized” state once you are back online on the FON website. Abandoned order Job is used to re-submit failed transactions. Receipts Receipts in Austria must include additional details as per the Austria Fiscal regulations. These details consist of the retailer's Tax ID and a QR code of transaction details that have been fiscalized. If the MAO system is unable to communicate with the EFR, or if the EFR is unable to communicate with the TSE, the receipt will be printed with the message “Security device failed“. The sample receipts for Austria are found here. Supported/Not Supported Features for Austria Below is the list of features which are supported and not supported in Austria by Manhattan Active® Omni POS application, where : ✅ : Supported and Fiscalized : Supported But Not Fiscalized ❌ : Not Supported Feature Status Sales flow with cash, Credit card, Debit card, Personal cheque,Traveller's check, Gift card ✅ Sale transaction using foreign currency cash ✅ Sale transaction by activating customer ✅ Sale transaction with guest check out ✅ Sale transaction by linking sale associate ✅ Sale transaction with price override ✅ Sale transaction with one or more quantities ✅ Sale transaction with line void or mid-void ✅ Sale transaction with mid-payment void ✅ Sales flow with VAS ✅ Sales flow with non-merchandise items ✅ Void Transaction ✅ Sale with transaction/ line discounts ✅ Sale with Promo ✅ Tax Override ❌ Tax Exempt ❌ Return with receipts-Return from single order/multiple order ✅ Return with receipts-Return Ship To Address, Pick up In Store orders created from POS - single order/multiple order ❌ Return with receipts-Return e-com Ship To Address, Pick up In Store orders in store ❌ Return with receipts-Return e-com Ship To Address, Pick up In Store along with POS sale orders in store ❌ Return Refund to same tender paid originally or any other tender irrespective of original payment ✅ Return with receipt, but return has restocking or other fees ❌ Return without Receipt ✅ Exchange -customer is returning item/items and buying new items in the same return transaction ✅ Print/Email Receipt ✅ Print/Email Gift Receipt Reprint receipts from historical transactions ✅ Reprint receipt of last transaction on the register ✅ Reprint Gift receipt Re-send email of receipts ✅ Resend Gift receipt Gift Card activation ✅ Gift Card Reload ✅ GC Balance inquiry Gift Card Cash Out ❌ All Back Office Transactions All Manager Function-No Sale Suspend/Resume ❌ Omni Transaction-Sale with InStore purchases and Ship to Address lines ❌ Omni Transaction-Pick up at store lines ❌ Omni Transaction-Ship to Store lines ❌ Omni Transaction-Buy Online, Pick up in Store + Purchase more while in store ❌ Order deposits, i.e. Pay in partial deposits ❌ Order quote ❌ Post void ❌ Exchange Tender, I.e. exchange 2 gift card and issue 1 gift card ❌ Price Check ❌ Offline Transaction-Standalone transaction creation without internet connectivity ❌ Out of Order, Manual Transaction ❌ The features which are not supported should be controlled via grants or Business Flags. Refer to Configuration and Resources guide for more details on the configurations. Additional configurations are noted below: In Austria, GC cashout is not supported.  Business Flag : POS general configuration >>Common Configuration >> Gift card cashout threshold=0 Services The APIs listed below are related to Austria Fiscalization at Manhattan Active® Point Of Sale and are referenced in this document. Refer to API documentation for additional details on each service. Service Component Group Service Endpoint FiscalConfig Order FiscalConfig {{url}}order/api/order/fiscalConfig OrderConfig Order OrderConfig {{url}}order/api/order/orderConfig Job Scheduler batch Job Scheduler {{url}}/backoffice/api/batch/jobSchedule Trigger Adhoc batch Job Scheduler {{url}}/backoffice/api/batch/jobSchedule/triggerAdhoc fiscalAttributes Backoffice fiscalAttributes {{url}}/backoffice/api/backoffice/fiscalAttributes Fiscal Process Backoffice Fiscal Process {{url}}/storefacade/api/storefacade/backoffice/fiscal/processFiscal register devicemanagement register {{url}}/devicemanagement/api/devicemanagement/register/save * The fiscal guidelines and numbers (annual turn over, tax rates) are as of Jan-2024, which might be subjected to change as per local laws.