# Auto Submit - Approval Policies

**Permalink:** auto-submit-approval-policies
**Content Length:** 7,928 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:32.239564

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Configurations&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Allocation ››Auto Submit - Approval Policies Auto Submit - Approval Policies &nbsp; Auto Submit - Approval PoliciesFiltersCreating an Auto Submit - Approval PolicyEditing an Auto Submit - Approval PolicyDeleting an Auto Submit - Approval PolicyField DescriptionAction Buttons This page helps you to create policies that can be used to get approval for the relevant allocation. Each user can create only one Auto Submit - Approval policy, and multiple rules can be added to a single policy. &nbsp; Filters User Id &nbsp; Creating an Auto Submit - Approval Policy &nbsp; To create a new Auto Submit - Approval Policy: &nbsp; Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt; Configurations&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Allocation &gt; Auto Submit-Approval Policies. Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Click&nbsp;Create&nbsp;to view the&nbsp;Create New Auto Submit-Approval Policies&nbsp;window. Select a User Id and click Save and Continue. Click Add New to specify rules for auto approval. Enter a value for Auto Approval Criteria Id and Description. Choose Yes or No for Enabled Auto Approval to enable automatic approval for the policy, and click on Save and Continue. On the Auto Approval Conditions page, choose the Attribute, Operator, and Value to create a relevant condition that should be met for the policy to be auto approved. You can create multiple conditions and groups of conditions if required, or select This is a catch-all rule for the policy to adhere to all possible conditions. Click Save and Finish. Note:&nbsp;All mandatory fields are denoted with *. &nbsp; Editing an Auto Submit - Approval Policy &nbsp; You can edit an&nbsp;Auto Submit - Approval Policy policy&nbsp;using one of the below procedures: &nbsp; Swipe-out List Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt; Configurations&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Allocation &gt; Auto Submit-Approval Policies. Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Select the required policy. Swipe-out the menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Edit. In the edit&nbsp;Auto Submit-Approval Policies&nbsp;window, modify the required fields. Click&nbsp;Save and Finish&nbsp;to save the modified policy details. Edit View Select the required policy record card. The action buttons are displayed in the footer section. Click&nbsp;Edit&nbsp;to view the edit&nbsp;Auto Submit-Approval Policies&nbsp;window. Click&nbsp;Save and Finish&nbsp;to save the modified policy details. Deleting an Auto Submit - Approval Policy &nbsp; The policy records can be deleted by following one of the below procedures: &nbsp; Swipe-out List Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt; Configurations&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Allocation &gt; Auto Submit-Approval Policies. Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Swipe-out menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts as &#39;Deletion of Auto Approval Policy is irreversible&#39;. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the policy. Delete Select the required record card. The footer section with action buttons is displayed. Select&nbsp;Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts as &#39;Deletion of Auto Approval Policy is irreversible&#39;. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the policy. Field Description Following are the field descriptions of the attributes available on the screen. &nbsp; Field &nbsp; Description &nbsp; User Id Specifies the user id which has created the policy. Updated Time Stamp Specifies the date and time when the policy was updated. &nbsp; Action Buttons Following are the action buttons available on the screen. &nbsp; Create Opens the&nbsp;Create New Auto Submit-Approval Policies&nbsp;window.&nbsp; Deselect Clears the selected records. Edit Opens the relevant&nbsp;Auto Submit-Approval Policies&nbsp;window. Delete Deletes the selected record. &nbsp;