# Availability Statistics

**Permalink:** availability-statistics
**Content Length:** 22,407 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:33:32.549508

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Enterprise Inventory&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Available to Commerce ››Availability Statistics Availability Statistics Previous | Next &nbsp; In this section let&#39;s understand why and where availability statistics is used. OverviewWhere Availability Statistics is used?Current State AnalysisPreview/What if analysisComparison of Current State Vs&nbsp;PreviewMetricsImplementation FlavorsRelated Articles Overview ATC is an extremely critical component to the business. Commerce views configuration is a complex configuration and has a direct impact to the performance of e-comm/retail business as the inventory exposed from a view is what is available for commerce. Thus any ATC View configuration issue comes at a high cost.The Availability Statistics enhancement mitigates the risk of ATC configuration issues by analyzing the data and generating comprehensive and understandable reports on the metrics available from the data for a commerce view. These reports proactively make the different stakeholders such as e-Comm Channel Manager, Merchandisers, Inventory Managers and Store Operations aware of the impact of current configuration as well as any changes if made to it. The data that goes within a commerce view is huge and complex and analysis of the data can becomes quite challenging. The reports generated from ATC view can ease out the problem by breaking down the data analysis requirement into Key metrics and then preparing and presenting the reports using visual graphics and tables. Where Availability Statistics is used? The Availability Statistics can prove extremely useful in the following scenarios Live/View is up and running Going Live/Changing Configuration Current State Analysis Current State Analysis is the statistical analysis of the current state (active configuration) of the view. Current state analysis is used in scenarios where the view is live and running and the user needs to assess its health. Live/View is up and Running:&nbsp;If a commerce view is live, users do not have an insight on what is happening with a view, whether or not a view is performing as per the expectation. The information is available in the database, but the data is too complex to comprehend. There are a lot of question one may have for an active configuration - &ldquo;How many stores are at maximum capacity?&rdquo;, &ldquo;How much of my inventory is Out of stock&rdquo;, &ldquo;How many items and units are affected by store outages?&rdquo; The Current State Analysis feature introduced in ATC helps user get answers to all the above questions, by generating a comprehensive, user understandable and graphical report on the key metrics/statistics such as items, locations, quantity inclusion and exclusions, etc. This helps Provides assurance to channel managers about the performance Makes you aware of the opportunity to expose more/less inventory Understand and improve operational issues (exclusions, etc). Preview/What if analysis Generation of Preview statistics of an inactive configuration helps users in scenarios where the view is going live. This allows user to preview how the configuration will actually perform if the view is made live.&nbsp;Preview data generated for the inactive configuration is just a mean to generate statistics for the configuration (at that pint in time). The preview data is not updated or affected by triggers to recompute availability. Going Live Before a view is made live, the view setting are discussed upon, tested in test environment, and changes are made if required to the configuration settings. There are a lot of questions that needs to be asked before making a commerce view live in production environment - &ldquo;Will there be enough items available online for sales?&rdquo;, &ldquo;What percent of items will be out of stock&rdquo;, &ldquo;Will enough units be available to sell, to support ecomm sales?&rdquo; &nbsp;The preview feature in ATC helps users get an answer to all the above questions, by generating preview data and preview report of the inactive configuration (before it is made active). This helps Eliminates surprises regarding what is exposed to a channel Set appropriate expectations for the business Provides important metrics that can be used to drive conversations on what should be exposed / shouldn&rsquo;t be exposed Live/Changing Configuration The live configuration may need updates because of many reasons, such as change of season sale, adding a new store to the configuration, removing the out of stock or non performing stocks from the view, &nbsp;to improve the view&rsquo;s overall health, etc. To enable any of the above action, user need to create a new configuration and switch from the old configuration to the new one. But it can lead to uncertainty over the performance of the new configuration. Availability statistics allows the user to configure a preview data for the new configuration along with the metrics/statistics generation for comparative analysis with the existing configuration data. This helps Improve the configuration settings if things fall below expectation. Remove uncertainty of the performance of the new configuration. Comparison of Current State Vs&nbsp;Preview Comparison of metrics between the preview configuration and the active configuration helps user in scenarios where the view is already live and user wants to promote a new configuration.User can generate preview data for the inactive configuration and can compare it side by side with the active configuration data. Note: For a more relevant comparison, whenever the preview data is generated for an active view, the active configuration data is also refreshed. Also the comparison can only be done between an inactive configuration and the active configuration of the same view. Currently comparison of two inactive configuration or two active configuration across views are not allowed. Metrics User can generate statistics for the active configuration (current state) or inactive configuration (preview) of the commerce view for the three scenarios listed above. The statistics generated represent a snapshot of the data at the time of generation. Three levels of metrics are generated as part of preview or current state analysis: Network Metrics - The network level view is calculated without taking any view definition rules into account. It represents the &quot;whole pie&quot; that could be made available to promise. This statistic provides a quick overview of overall network level information which can be compared with the scope and exposure statistics to identify the impact of the view rules. Scope Metrics - The scope level statistics represents the subset of the &quot;network-level pie&quot; that could be made available to promise. It is calculated based on the view definition rules, but with no exclusion or constraint rules applied (i.e. capacity, fulfillment outage, inventory protection, ETA criteria, shorts, commerce rules, etc.) Exposure Metrics - The exposure level statistics represent the subset of the &quot;network-level pie&quot; or &quot;scope level pie&quot; that is currently made available to promise. This takes all availability rules that are configured in the commerce view into account (i.e. capacity, fulfillment outage, inventory protection, ETA criteria, shorts, commerce rules, etc.) &nbsp; Statistics&nbsp; End Points Network Level Statistics&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; inventory/api/availability/stats/&lt;viewDefinitionID&gt;/&lt;viewConfigID&gt;/network Scope Level Statistics&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; inventory/api/availability/stats/&lt;viewDefinitionID&gt;/&lt;viewConfigID&gt;/scope Exposure Level Statistics&nbsp;&nbsp; inventory/api/availability/stats/&lt;viewDefinitionID&gt;/&lt;viewConfigID&gt;/exposure &nbsp; There are three key factors under which the above metrics are generated:&nbsp; Availability Statistics - Item Metric Description Items in network Represents the count of total items defined for a retailer Items with active inventory Represents the count of total items with at least one active inventory record Items in scope Represents the items which are included in the view scope Items by location types Represents the items which are included in the view by each location types. The location types are DCs, stores, suppliers and others Items by rule sets Represents the items which are included in the view by each rule set within the location types Items available Represents the unique items in the view which are available to sell. It constitutes items with stock status either in &quot;In Stock&quot;&nbsp;or &quot;Limited Stock&quot; Items in stock Represents the unique items in the view with stock status as &quot;In Stock&quot;. If an item&nbsp;is in both &quot;In Stock&quot;&nbsp;status and &quot;Limited Stock&quot;&nbsp;status, the items are&nbsp;considered/counted in the highest stock status, which is &quot;In Stock&quot;. Items limited stock Represents the unique items with the highest stock status as &quot;Limited Stock&quot;. If an item is in both &quot;Limited Stock&quot;, and &quot;Out of Stock&quot; status, the item is considered/counted in the highest stock status, which is &quot;Limited Stock&quot;. Items unavailable Represents the unique items of the view which are included (in scope)&nbsp;but are not available to sell. It constitutes of items which are excluded because of some exclusion reason applied or are out of stock because of insufficient inventory Items excluded units Represents items which are out of stock because of one of the exclusions applied. In other words, if the exclusions were not applied to the item, it would be available to sell Items zero units Represents items which are out of stock because of insufficient inventory. In other words, these are items which are unavailable to sell, but not excluded because of any exclusion reason Items affected by each exclusion reason Represents items which are affected by one or more exclusion reasons. Exclusion reasons can be: capacity, fulfillment outages,&nbsp;inventory error, commerce characteristics or protected units Items out of stock by each exclusion reason Represents items which went out of stock because of one or more exclusion reason. Availability Statistics - Location Metric Description Locations in network Represents the count of total locations defined for a retailer Locations with active inventory Represents the count of locations with at least one active inventory Locations in scope Represents the count of total locations that are included in the view Location by each location types Represents the count of locations included in the view by each location types (i.e., DCs, stores, suppliers and other locations) Location by each rule set Represents the locations which are included in the view by each rule set within the location types Locations affected by each exclusions reasons Represents locations which are affected by one or more exclusion reasons. Exclusion reasons can be:&nbsp;capacity,&nbsp;fulfillment outages,&nbsp;inventory error,&nbsp;commerce characteristics or&nbsp;protected units Availability Statistics - Unit Metric Description Total units in network Represents the total units (quantity) in the network Total units in scope Represents the total units (quantity) of items which are in scope (included in the view) Total units available to sell Represents the total units available to sell. This is the quantity of item with stock status in &quot;In Stock&quot; or &quot;Limited Stock&quot; Total units available to sell by each location types Represents the total units available to sell by each of the Location types (i.e. DCs, stores, suppliers and others) Total units excluded by each exclusion reasons Represents the total units excluded because of each of the exclusion rules. Exclusion reasons can be:&nbsp;capacity,&nbsp;fulfillment outages,&nbsp;inventory error,&nbsp;commerce characteristics or&nbsp;protected units Implementation Flavors NA Related Articles TroubleshootingPublish AvailabilityOverviewView Activation and RebuildsREST APIs and User ExitsHow is Availability Computed?