# Available Attributes

**Permalink:** available-attributes-2
**Content Length:** 10,525 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:33.802755

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Configurations&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Common ››Available Attributes Rule Available Attributes &nbsp; Rule Available AttributesFiltersCreating an Available Attribute.Editing Available AttributesDetails ViewDeleting a Available AttributesField DescriptionAction Buttons The Rule available attributes UI lists the available attributes for a given component. The base provides an exhaustive list of attributes. However, if need be, attributes can be added/edited/deleted. Please exercise caution while editing/deleting the attributes provided by the base. The available attributes are system augmentable and hence they can only be maintained by the user &#39;system admin&#39;. If any other user tries to carry out any create, edit, or delete operations, an error is thrown to the user. &nbsp; Filters The&nbsp;available attributes filters are: 1)&nbsp;Attribute Id 2)&nbsp;Entity Id 3)&nbsp;Attribute Label 4)&nbsp;Alternate Name 5)&nbsp;List Data Type 6)&nbsp;List Functions 7)&nbsp;Source Type 8)&nbsp;Source URL 9)&nbsp;Source Value &nbsp; Creating an Available Attribute. To create a new available attribute: Select the allocation component name from the filter panel. &nbsp; Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Configuration&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Common &gt; Available Attributes Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Click&nbsp;Create&nbsp;to view the&nbsp;Available Attributes&nbsp;window. On the Available Attributes&nbsp;page, enter a unique&nbsp;Attribute Id&nbsp;(name of the attribute). Select the&nbsp;Source Entity&nbsp;to which the attribute ID belongs from the drop-down list. Select the Data Type of attribute from the drop-down list. Enter the Attribute Label of an attribute. Enter the Alternate Name&nbsp;of an attribute. Enter the List Data Type of an attribute. Enter the List Functions of an attribute. Enter the&nbsp;Source Type of an attribute. Enter the&nbsp;Source URL of an attribute. Enter the&nbsp;Source Value of an attribute Click&nbsp;Save. Editing Available Attributes To edit available attribute: &nbsp; Swipe-out List Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Configuration&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Common &gt; Available Attributes Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Select the required available attribute record. Swipe-out the menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Edit. In the&nbsp;Available Attribute&nbsp;window, modify the required fields. Click&nbsp;Save&nbsp;to save the modified available attributes&nbsp;details. Edit View Select the required available attribute record card. The action buttons are displayed in the footer section. Click&nbsp;Edit&nbsp;to view the&nbsp;Available Attribute&nbsp;window, modify the required fields. Click&nbsp;Save&nbsp;to save the&nbsp;modified available attributes&nbsp;details. Details View &nbsp; Swipe Out List Select the required available attribute&nbsp;details. record. Swipe-out menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Details. In the&nbsp;Available Attribute&nbsp;wizard, you can view the details of the available attribute. Details View Select the required record card and you can view the action&nbsp;buttons displayed on the footer section. Click&nbsp;Details&nbsp;from the action button to view&nbsp;details of available attribute. Deleting a Available Attributes &nbsp; The available attribute&nbsp;records can be deleted by following one of the below procedures: Swipe-out List Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Configuration&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Common &gt; Available Attributes Swipe-out menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts as &#39;This action will delete the selected Available Attribute&#39;. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the available attribute. Delete Select the required record card. The footer section with action buttons is displayed. Select&nbsp;Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts as &#39;This action will delete the selected Available Attribute&#39;. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the available attribute. &nbsp; Field Description Following are the field descriptions of the attributes available on the screen. &nbsp; Field &nbsp;Description Attribute Id The name of the attribute.&nbsp;e.g., vendor. Entity ID Source entity to which the attribute ID belongs.&nbsp;e.g item. Data Type This represents the data type for the attribute. Attribute Label This represents the text for the attribute. The attribute will appear with this text in the Rule dropdown. Alternate Name The alternate name of an attribute. List Data Type The list data type of an attribute. List Functions The list functions of an attribute. Source Type The source type of an attribute. Source URL The source URL of an attribute. Source Value The source value of an attribute. &nbsp; Action Buttons Following are the action buttons available on the screen. &nbsp; Select All Rows Selects all the rows of records on the screen. Export Exports the list of available attributes, and the file will be downloaded onto your system. View&nbsp;Export&nbsp;for more information. Create Opens the&nbsp;Available Attribute&nbsp;window.&nbsp; Deselect Clears the selected records. Edit Opens the relevant&nbsp;Available Attribute&nbsp;window. Details Opens the&nbsp;Available Attribute&nbsp;window to provide more details of the selected record. Delete Deletes the selected record. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;