# Available To Commerce (New)

**Permalink:** availabletocommercenew
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Order Management/UI Help/Enterprise Inventory/Available to Commerce/Available To Commerce (New)
**Content Length:** 23,741 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:59:24.463320

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Order Management››UI Help››Enterprise Inventory››Available to Commerce ››Available To Commerce (New) Available To Commerce (New) Available To Commerce (New)ATC Landing PageATC View TilesView Configuration ActionsGenAI Audit SummaryView Detail PageAvailability Rules TabAdditional Configs TabPublish Availability TabRest API Configs TabView Stats Configuration Manhattan Active® Omni has a new and improved Available To Commerce UI. This UI has an updated look and feel, and can be accessed by clicking “Available To Commerce - (New)” from the menu. This page describes the new UI and a description of all the configurations available. Note that the configurations available in the new UI are the same as the configurations in the current UI. ATC Landing Page The ATC Landing Page has a tile for every ATC View created. Each tile is categorized by its View Purpose. "Ship To Home" and "Ship To Location" are examples of View Purposes. View Purposes can be added, updated and removed using the View Purpose UI. The View Purpose for an existing view can be updated using the ViewPurposeId field in the ViewDefinition entity via API. ATC View Tiles On the tile there are multiple components that are described below: View Name: This is the name of the view, configured by the user who created the view. View Type: This describes whether the view is a network view or a location view. Location view publishes inventory at an item-location level, whereas network level view publishes inventory at an item level. View status: This describes whether the view is Active, Inactive, or In Progress. In progress means the view is building. Upon completion, the view will be active. Inactive views cannot be used to publish inventory or retrieve inventory via API. Item Search with GenAI: The magnifying glass in the upper right-hand corner allows a user to search for the availability of an item in the view either using GenAI or manual search. Three dot menu: The menu in the upper right corner of the tile has four options: Rename View, Edit View Purpose, Delete, and Add View Configuration. GenAI View Summary: This is a generative AI "at a glance" summary of each view. It is not intended to be comprehensive, and is updated whenever a view is updated or created. This is only supported for english locale. View More: On clicking the 'View more' link, a pop-up appears with details about ATC View Name, View Config and GenAI view summary. View Configuration: This is the name of the view configuration. One view can have multiple view configurations. If you click on the view configuration, a list of all the view configurations will appear, if there is more than one. Upon hovering over a view configurations in the drop-down, you can take a variety of actions: Summarize, View, Edit, Delete, Save As, Activate, Deactivate, Rebuild, Sync, View Audit, and View Stats. See below for more details on each of these. View Configuration Actions Summarize: generative AI "at a glance" summary of each view. It is not intended to be comprehensive, and is updated whenever a view is updated or created. This is only supported for english locale. View: This action allows you to view the details of the view configuration Edit: This action allows you to view and edit the details of the view configuration Delete: This burron deletes the view configuration. Save As: This action allows you to create another identical view configuration with a different view configuration name Activate: This action activates the view configuration. Only one view configuration can be active at once. Deactivate: This action deactivates the view configuration. Sync: This action will initiate an outbound sync to be sent for that view config. View Audit: This pop-up provides key information about the view View Stats: Upon clicking 'Generate,' a process will be initiated to generate data visualizations about the items and locations in the view configuration at that moment in time. The count of items in the view, the count of locations in the view, and the count of items that are available can be seen inside the View Stats page. Additionally, two view configurations can be compared side-by-side to observe any differences in the contents. View Stats take time to generate, so it is recommended to trigger the process and then check back later in the day to view the data. Only 1 view configuration can generate View Stats at once. See below for steps to turn View Stats feature on. GenAI Audit Summary Upon clicking the notification bubble in the upper-right corner of the landing page, a window will appear that provides "at a glance" summarizing every change made to an ATC View in the past 30 days (past 7 days by default) along with the time the change was made and the person who made the change. This is only supported for English locale. Note: For the audit summary view to work properly, ensure that the inv::eventConfig profile purpose is copied from the base profile to the user profile. View Detail Page After double-clicking on a view tile, or selecting a view configuration from the view configuration drop-down, the View Details page will appear. This page has four tabs which are described in the sections below. Availability Rules Tab The Availability Rules tab is used for configuring Availability Rules (formerly known as Rule Sets) while creating a new view or updating an existing view. The Availability Rules (Rule Sets) are represented by the tiles on the left side of the screen. There are four types of Availability Rules: 'Distribution Center', 'Stores', 'Suppliers' and 'Others'. After creating an Availability Rule by clicking 'Add Availability Rule' and selecting a location type ('Distribution Center', 'Stores', 'Suppliers' and 'Others'), Inclusions and Exclusions can be created for Locations, Items, Inventory, and Commerce Characteristics by clicking on Add Inclusion Group/Add Exclusion Group in the 'Availability Rule Details' on the right side of the screen. Inclusion and Exclusion group names are auto-generated, and can be edited by clicking the pencil icon while the view is inactive. Duplicate names (names are not case-sensitive) are not permitted for the groups. In the Location section, there is an additional option to exclude locations at full capacity for the Availability Rule. In the Inventory section, there is an additional option to configure an On Hand Protection (either as a fixed value or one of the Item Location Protections fields in Item Location UI). Note: Exclusions will override inclusions. For example, if a user selects "Select All" Items, and excludes items having the "Dress Pants" style, then the items included in the Availability Rule will be all items that are not "Dress Pants" style. Additional Configs Tab The Additional Configs tab is where all view configuration level business flags and configs can be found, except for the Supply Settings which apply to the whole view. All the configs are organized by the following settings: Item Settings - Includes Network Protection configuration, Exclude backordered quantity from availability, and Include Substitutions flags. Location Settings - Includes Store Exclusions and Fulfillment Outage Reasons. Supply Settings - Includes Constrain Future Inventory config and the related configuration to publish a certain time window for the future inventory in Sync and Get Availability calls. Publish Availability Tab The Publish Availability tab comprises outbound sync settings like outbound sync type, sync schedules, sync template, and infinite availability item in sync flag. It also includes status and alert settings, like alert thresholds and inventory alert settings. Rest API Configs Tab The Rest API tab is analogous to the "Regional Availability" tab in the current UI, with a few additions: Display Max Quantity flag and Enable Product Availability flag. Regional Availability Rules are represented by the tiles on the left side of the screen and can be described by the flags directly to the right of the tiles. View Stats Configuration In order to configure view stats, save the below Event Rule: POST {{url}}/agg-omni/api/fw-entity-aggregation/aggregationEvent/save View Stats Configuration { "EntitysName": "ViewStats", "EventName": "ViewStatsStrategy", "SourceUniqueKey": "PK", "AggregationEventRule": [ { "TargetEntity": "ViewStatsItemAvailability", "TargetAuditEntity": "ViewStatsItemAvailabilityAudit", "RuleName": "ViewStatsItemAvailabilityDaily", "SummarizationMsgType": "ago-ago-ViewStatsAggSummarizer", "TemporalLevel": "Daily", "SourceTemporalFieldName": "CreatedTimestamp", "TargetTemporalFieldName": "AggregationDate", "LeafLevel": "ViewStats.ItemAvailability", "Description": "View stats item availability metric", "AggregationEventFilter": [ { "FilterPath": "ViewStats", "FilterCondition": "ItemAvailability != null" } ], "AggregationEventMeasure": [ { "SourceFieldName": "ViewStats.ItemAvailability.Count", "SourceAggregationType": "Sum", "TargetFieldName": "ItemCount", "TargetAggregationType": "Sum" }, { "SourceFieldName": "ViewStats.ViewId", "SourceAggregationType": "AsIs", "TargetFieldName": "ViewId", "TargetAggregationType": "AsIs" }, { "SourceFieldName": "ViewStats.ViewConfigId", "SourceAggregationType": "AsIs", "TargetFieldName": "ViewConfigId", "TargetAggregationType": "AsIs" } ], "AggregationEventGroupBy": [ { "SourceFieldName": "ViewStats.RefreshRequestId", "TargetFieldName": "ViewStatsRefreshRequestId" }, { "SourceFieldName": "ViewStats.ItemAvailability.IsIncluded", "TargetFieldName": "IsIncluded" }, { "SourceFieldName": "ViewStats.ItemAvailability.Status", "TargetFieldName": "AvailabilityStatus" } ] }, { "TargetEntity": "ViewStatsLocationCount", "TargetAuditEntity": "ViewStatsLocationCountAudit", "RuleName": "ViewStatsLocationCountDaily", "SummarizationMsgType": "ago-ago-ViewStatsAggSummarizer", "TemporalLevel": "Daily", "SourceTemporalFieldName": "CreatedTimestamp", "TargetTemporalFieldName": "AggregationDate", "LeafLevel": "ViewStats.LocationCount", "Description": "View stats location count metric", "AggregationEventFilter": [ { "FilterPath": "ViewStats", "FilterCondition": "LocationCount != null" } ], "AggregationEventMeasure": [ { "SourceFieldName": "ViewStats.LocationCount.Count", "SourceAggregationType": "Sum", "TargetFieldName": "LocationCount", "TargetAggregationType": "Sum" }, { "SourceFieldName": "ViewStats.ViewId", "SourceAggregationType": "AsIs", "TargetFieldName": "ViewId", "TargetAggregationType": "AsIs" }, { "SourceFieldName": "ViewStats.ViewConfigId", "SourceAggregationType": "AsIs", "TargetFieldName": "ViewConfigId", "TargetAggregationType": "AsIs" } ], "AggregationEventGroupBy": [ { "SourceFieldName": "ViewStats.RefreshRequestId", "TargetFieldName": "ViewStatsRefreshRequestId" }, { "SourceFieldName": "ViewStats.LocationCount.IsIncluded", "TargetFieldName": "IsIncluded" } ] } ] }