# B2B Pricing

**Permalink:** b2b-pricing
**Content Length:** 10,393 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:37:14.208421

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Enterprise Promise &amp; Fulfill&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process &amp; Configuration Guides ››B2B Pricing B2B Pricing Price ListsPrice List Configuration&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Configuring Additional Customer, Item, or Location Attributes to be used in Price RulesConfiguring Additional Order Attributes to be used in Price Rules:&nbsp; The price of an item is determined by referring to the Item Price entity and retrieving the 'Selling Price' for the lowest ranking record for that item. For more information on how pricing works, please refer to the Pricing Guide. It is&nbsp;common in B2B scenarios to maintain distinct price lists tailored to different customers or groups of customers.&nbsp;For example, a small subset of B2B customers might have a 'Negotiated Price List' for a subset of items. If the 'Negotiated Price List' is only for a subset of items, then the retailer might want to use the 'Default' price list instead for the items not on the 'Negotiated Price List.'&nbsp; See the Price Lists section below to learn more about the Price List feature.&nbsp; Price Lists A Price List is a set of Item Price records in the Item Price entity that all share the same List Id. Using the Price List feature allows for different Price Lists to be maintained for different groups of customers, locations, orders, or items. For example,&nbsp;Tier 1 Customers use&nbsp;the 'Negotiated Price List' while Tier 2 Customers use the 'Default' list.&nbsp; Price Rules can be created to indicate which Price List should be used for each scenario. If no valid item price record is found for the list mentioned in the lowest ranking Price Rule, then the next lowest ranking Price Rule is selected. If no Item Price records are found in any of the Price Rule lists, then the 'Default' list is used.&nbsp; For example, a retailer might have two price rules configured: Rank 1&nbsp;Price Rule: customers of type 'Gold' should use the 'Gold Price List' Rank 2 Price Rule: outlet store purchases should use 'Outlet Price List.' If a 'Gold' customer makes a purchase at an outlet store, then the 'Gold Price List' price is selected. If a 'Silver' customer makes a purchase at an outlet store, then the 'Outlet Price List' price is used. If a 'Gold' customer makes a purchase at an outlet store for an item that is not in the 'Gold Price List,' then the 'Outlet Price List' is used. See below for Configuration steps.&nbsp;Preferred Price List Id can be passed on the Order Line to override the Price Rules altogether. If no item price is found for the Preferred Price List, the Default list is used. Price List Configuration&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 1. Sync profile The Price List feature uses a new profile purpose (prc::itemPriceConfig), so it is necessary to sync the profile in the Provisioning Profiles UI. 2. Configure Item Price records&nbsp;having the Price List name in the 'ListId' field 3. Configure Price Lists UI Configure the new Price List here, using the same exact ListId used in the Item Price records from step 2.&nbsp; A maximum of 10 Price Lists are supported. The default list (from active price list id) is not required to be configured here to still be active. 4. Configure Price Rules UI Each Price Rule&nbsp;indicates which Price List should be used in each scenario. The following attributes can be used to create Price Rules:&nbsp;CustomerId, CustomerCategory, CustomerType, ProductClass, SellingLocationId, and ItemId. It is possible to add more attributes with the steps below. If SellingLocationId is used as a Price Rule condition, then SellingLocationId must also be in the order header for that Price Rule to be selected. A Rank is assigned to each Price Rule. In case an order line meets the criteria of multiple Price Rules, the lowest ranking Price Rule is used to determine the Price List. If an item price record is not found for the lowest Rank Price Rule, then the next lowest rank&nbsp;Price Rule is used. If none of the Price Lists configured in the Price Rules have item price records for the item, the Default Price List is used. Configuring Additional Customer, Item, or Location Attributes to be used in Price Rules 1. Create an entry in the 'Inherited Labels' UI for the new attribute using the below values. Step 1: Target Entity: Order (or OrderLine if adding an item attribute) Step 2: Source Entity: Name of the entity (Example,&nbsp;Customer) Rule Name: Any rule name&nbsp;(Example,&nbsp;Customer) Inherit Source Attribute Name: Attribute name (Example,&nbsp;CustomerId) Inherit As Attribute: No Overridden Label Name: leave this blank 2. Add Available Attribute using System token POST {{url}}/pricepromo/api/rules/availableAttribute { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"AvailableEntityId": "customer", &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"AttributeLabel": "Customer Id", &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"AttributeDataType": { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"AttributeDataTypeId": "text" &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;}, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"AvailableAttributeId": "CustomerId", &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"isInUse": true } 3. Add Available Attribute Seed Data POST&nbsp;{{url}}/pricepromo/api/rules/ruleTypeAvailableAttributeXref { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"RuleType": { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"RuleTypeId": "ItemPriceConfigRule" &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;}, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"AvailableAttribute": { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"AvailableEntityId": "customer", &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"AvailableAttributeId": "CustomerId" &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;} } &nbsp; Note:&nbsp;If any location attributes (such as Organization Location) are used, the SellingLocationId must be included in the order header for the corresponding price rule to be applied. Configuring Additional Order Attributes to be used in Price Rules:&nbsp; The below order and order line attributes can be added to Price Rule&nbsp;attributes by performing steps 2 and 3 above.&nbsp; Order Attributes: OrganizationId, LocationId, TotalCharges, TotalDiscounts, OrderTotal, OrderSubTotal, IsBOPISToSTAConversion, OrderDate, IsEvaluatePromotion OrderLine Attributes: SellingPrice, BasePrice, CurrencyCode, PriceAction, GroupId, DeliveryMethod, ShippingMethod, UnitPrice, Quantity, ItemBrand, ProductClass, TotalCharges, TotalDiscounts, OrderLineSubTotal, OrderLineTotal, VolumetricWeight, CalculateShippingCharge, IsHazmat,&nbsp;IsGiftCard, IsNonMerchandise