# Backoffice Configuration

**Permalink:** backoffice-configuration-guide-2
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Store/Process & Configuration Guides/Point of Sale/POS Guides/BackOffice Transactions/Backoffice/Configuration
**Content Length:** 34,371 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:02:26.320421

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Store››Process & Configuration Guides››Point of Sale››POS Guides››BackOffice Transactions››Backoffice ››Backoffice Configuration Backoffice Configuration Store ConfigurationTill ConfigurationTill Pickup Threshold ConfigurationAutomatic Store Close SchedulerSteps to configure auto store closeReason and Reason TypeUIs and Entities Store Configuration This guide outlines the configurations required for Backoffice operations. Before starting the point of sale operations at a newly established store, configure the following settings: Store Configuration Purpose storeBaseCurrency Determines the operating currency of a store. Once configured and the store is opened, it cannot be changed during the life cycle of the store. For example: "USD" If the store base currency is changed after operating some business days, user will get a hard error in the UI. If, for some reason, the store currency entered was wrong to begin with, the only solution is to delete the entire location and set up a new location for that store. defaultStoreFloatAmount This is a retailer configured amount to start new business day with certain amount which eventually goes in to till once it is opened for new business day. This varies on business needs, volume of cash operations in a store and number of cash drawers configured for a store. isBlindCountFloatAmountEOD Determines whether the store safe float amount is visible to the user during the End of Day counting process. If this configuration is set as: True: "End of Day/ Store Open" store safe amount is not displayed to the user. False: Displays the default store safe amount isBlindCountFloatAmountSOD Determines whether the store safe float amount is visible to the user during the Start of Day counting process. If this configuration is set as: True: "Start of Day/ Store Close" store safe amount is not displayed to the user. False: Displays the default store safe amount countStoreFloatAmountEOD Determines how the store safe float amount must be counted during the End of Day process. If this configuration is set as: Total: User can enter the total amount. Detail: User needs to enter the amount by each denomination. countStoreFloatAmountSOD Determines how the store safe float amount must be counted during the Start of Day process. If this configuration is set as: Total: User can enter the total amount. Detail: User needs to enter the amount by each denomination. bankDepositCountingMethod Determines how the store safe float amount must be counted during the Bank Deposit process. If this configuration is set as: Total: User can enter the total amount. Detail: User needs to enter the amount by each denomination. No Count: Expected amount across supported payment types will be deposited, user need not enter the amount. Show Suggested Cash For Deposit When this is enabled extra 2 fields i.e. “Suggested Cash for Deposit“ and “Store Float“ is displayed on bank deposit screen. Suggested cash for deposit, will show the Cash amount i.e. result of store safe amount - store float, sometime store amount will include reconciled till amount based on configuration Include Till Amount To Calculate Suggested Deposit This is applicable only when “showSuggestedCashForDeposit“ is TRUE. And when “persistAmountInTill” = True or “isCombineReconcileAmts“ = False. When this is enabled Store amount will include reconciled till amount to calculate Suggested Cash for Deposit Calculate Suggested Deposit Using Configured Store Float When this is enabled Suggested Cash for Deposit will be calculated based on the configured value for defaultStoreFloatAmount.  If this is false, the Suggested Cash for Deposit will be calculated using the previously entered store float, from the Store Open transaction/procedure. autoStoreClose Store closure operation are usually fixed and does not change quite often, so store closure can be automatically performed at a given time for a particular business day. If this configuration is set as: True: Store automatically closes at a given time performing all the store closure activities (like till reconcile, bank deposit, killing suspended transaction, and store close) False: Store will not be automatically closed, user need to manually perform this operation autoStoreCloseTime This is to capture the time for a automatic store close operation. This attribute will only be read when "autoStoreClose" is set as "TRUE" For example: HH:MM i.e "20:30" autoStoreCloseRegisterId This is to capture the Register ID for a automatic store close operation. This attribute will only be read when "autoStoreClose" is set as "TRUE" For example: "101" displayRecEntityforPayout Displays Receiving Entity for a Payout Transaction. This attribute is to capture the receiver's context to whom the Payout Transaction is done. If this configuration is set as: True: Displays as optional for a Payout Transaction False: Do not display for a Payout Transaction. Variance Confirmation Number of times an extra confirmation required from the user for any variance during a store close or till reconcile of back office. Default value = 0. Ex. Value of 0 means "no extra confirmation", value of 2 means "you will need to confirm variance 2 times". DefaultStoreOpenDateFromSystem Determines whether the store open date is defaulted from the system or manual user entry. By default the flag is set to False. False - Initial default Store Open is the previous Business Date + 1.  Users can manually manipulate the Store Open Date. True - The Store Open Date on the BackOffice is automatically defaulted from the device OS date.  Users cannot manually change the store open date in the application. However, the user has the option to close and open the store on the same day twice. When opening the store for the second time, the system adds +1 day to the current date and opens the store for the next business day. The store can then be closed only when the store's open date is the same as the system date, else the system will not allow the store to close. More details on the Process page. Till Configuration After completing the store configuration, till related operation has certain settings that needs to be configured. Till Configuration Purpose isBlindCountDuringTillOpen Determines whether the till float is visible to the user during till open activity. If this configuration is set as: True: Till float is not displayed to the user. False: Till float is displayed to the user. isBlindReconcile Determines whether the Float and till amount is visible to the user during till reconcile activity. If this configuration is set as: True: Till float and till amount is not displayed to the user. False: Till float and till amount are displayed to the user. isCombineReconciliationAmounts Determines if the till reconcile must be performed combining both till float and till amount or needs to be done separately for each. If this configuration is set as: True: Till float and till amount is combine during till reconcile. False: Till float and till amount is calculated separately during till reconcile popCashDrawerTillOpen If this is true, then cash drawer will be engaged/opened, disengaged systematically during till open operation: True: Cash drawer is popped out during till open process and back office transaction transaction from Open to Closed or Cancelled status. False: Cash drawer does not pop out during till open process NOTE Do NOT set this flag TRUE if Till Open is being done via Browser as peripherals cannot be correctly driven from Browser.  This will cause the cash drawer status to become ENGAGED without actually popping the drawer. popCashDrawerTillReconcile If this is true, then cash drawer will be engaged/opened, disengaged systematically during till reconcile operation: True: Cash drawer is popped out during till reconcile process and back office transaction transaction from Open to Closed or Cancelled status. False: Cash drawer does not pop out during till reconcile process. NOTE Do NOT set this flag TRUE if Till Close (Reconcile) is being done via Browser as peripherals cannot be correctly driven from Browser.  This will cause the cash drawer status to become ENGAGED without actually popping the drawer. hideCloseTillfunction Determines if the Close Till menu option is available to the user or not. True: Close Till option hidden in the BackOffice. User can not perform close till operation in the Backoffice. False: Close Till option is displayed in the Backoffice dashboard menu and user has the ability to close the till. secureManualTillEntry Determines if the user can manually enter the till number or not in the Open Till True: Manual entry of till number at the Open Till screen is only available to users having specific grants associated to their profile. False: Manual till entry is allowed in the Open Till. countTillOpeningFloatAmount Determines how the till float must be counted during till open activity. If this configuration is set as: Total: User can enter the total amount. Detail: User needs to enter the amount by each denomination. countTillReconcFloatAmount Determines how the till reconcile float amount must be counted during till reconcile activity. If this configuration is set as: Total: User can enter the total amount for till float. Detail: User needs to enter the amount for each denomination for till float. countTillAtReconcile Determines how the till reconcile amount must be counted during till reconcile activity. If this configuration is set as: Total: User can enter the total amount for till amount. Detail: User needs to enter the amount by each denomination for till amount. countTillLoanAmount Determines how the till loan amount must be counted during till loan activity for the Manager functions. If this configuration is set as: Total: User can enter the total amount. Detail: User needs to enter the amount for each denomination. countTillPickupAmount Determines how the till pickup must be counted during till pickup activity for the Manager functions. If this configuration is set as: Total: User can enter the total amount. Detail: User needs to enter the amount for each denomination. defaultTillFloatAmount This is to capture the default till float amount with which the till opens. The same float amount is used during till float reconciliation. persistAmountInTill Determines if the amount needs to be persisted in the till during till reconciliation. True: If "isCombineReconciliationAmounts"=True, then during till reconciliation all amount will be persisted in till. If "isCombineReconciliationAmounts"=False, then only amount entered in Till Float will be persisted in the till and rest is moved to store amount. False: If "isCombineReconciliationAmounts"=True, then during till reconciliation all amount removed from till and added to store amount. If "isCombineReconciliationAmounts"=False, then only amount entered in Till Float will be persisted in the till and rest is moved to store amount. Currency denominations: Denominations on the backoffice screens are sorted by created date time. So create the denomination records in the same order as you want them to be presented on the UI. Till Pickup Threshold Configuration The threshold amount for each currency that the store supports must be configured. Based on this configuration, during any till amount update operation, if the currency has reached or crossed the threshold for a particular till, the update is captured and the "hasAlert" flag is saved to the till entity. The alert will be removed when the till amount is below the threshold. The till amount is decreased by till pickup, returns, postvoid, payout and so on. Automatic Store Close Scheduler Store Open operation checks for the "autoStoreClose" flag. If this flag is set to true, then this operation schedules the "Store Close" process for the stores' business day and time. Time will be fetched from "autoStoreCloseTime". At this particular time, the Store Close operation is triggered by a configured "autoStoreCloseRegisterId". This operation reconciles all tills, cancels all suspended orders and closes the store with default float and expected amount. Steps to configure auto store close Set Backoffice property batch.useSchedulerComponent= true (KV config/com-manh-cp-backoffice/batch.useSchedulerComponent/) Check in Scheduler component if property scheduler.components have the value backoffice::bcf if it is not included, then add the value to the comma-separated list. (KV config/com-manh-cp-scheduler/scheduler.components/) Check that JobTypeDefinition for AutoStoreClose is available using API GET {{url}}/backoffice/api/batch/jobTypeDefinition?query=(JobTypeId=autoStoreCloseJobType) Auto close store job type{ "JobTypeDescription": "Job for auto store close", "IncludedOrganizations": null, "IsDBStatusMonitor": false, "TriggerMissingExecutions": null, "StatusMonitorLevel": "NONE", "ExcludedOrganizations": null, "IsHeelToToe": false, "CreateContextFromJobParams": false, "IsSyncExecution": false, "ChunkSize": 2, "JobTypeId": "autoStoreCloseJobType", "JobType": "FUNCTIONAL" } Copy profile purpose bcf::batch to the org profile. The user that performs the open store operations needs to have access to the profile purpose so the scheduled job can be created. Restart backoffice and scheduler components Using Config UI update Backoffice Configurations → BO Store Configurations and set the values: Auto Store Close as true Auto Store Close Time with the time in format HH:MM AM/PM Auto Store Close User Register: This is the register with which we will close the store. After the above steps, the Auto Store Close will be enabled. This means that when the user does an Open Store operation a new scheduled job will be created. This scheduled job will use the same timezone configured for the specific location and will have a cron for the specified time for the business day. More details about the auto store closing operation. The auto store close scheduler job is created during the store open operation. Perform store open operation for the store i.e. for example Location1 for which auto close store needs to be configured. This will create a job scheduler for Location1 Auto Close store time: How does this work for store running on different timezone, answered below. The job scheduler created will pick the time from autoStoreCloseTime from storeConfiguration entity, and will also consider the timezone of the location entity. For example: If I set it up 1:00 PM as Auto Store Close time in BO Store Configurations and I have 2 stores i.e. store 1 in EST and Store 2 in PST. If auto store close on and I open stores in store 1 and Store 2, it will create 2 separate job schedule for each store.  It will use for each job the time zone set in the location configuration. So for example it will create jobs with details like these for stores, assuming current date = 2021-08-11 If Store 1 = Location1, then JobScheduleId= scheduleIdLocation1 | CronExpression = 0 0 13 11 8 ? 2021 | TimeZone = America/New_York If Store 2 = Location2, then JobScheduleId= scheduleIdLocation2 | CronExpression = 0 0 13 11 8 ? 2021 | TimeZone = America/Los_Angeles The jobs created will be pushed to scheduler component, verify this by doing get call. GET {{url}}/backoffice/api/batch/jobSchedule?query=(JobTypeId=autoStoreCloseJobType) GET {{url}}/scheduler/api/scheduler/jobSchedule?query=(JobTypeId=autoStoreCloseJobType) Reason and Reason Type Configure the following types of reasons. For each reason code, the configured reason types are displayed in the UI drop-down when users are creating a reason code for the given type. Reason codes can be configured in the Backoffice Reason UI. PayIn PayOut Till Loan Till Pickup No Sale UIs and Entities The configuration UIs mentioned in this document are listed in the table below, along with information to navigate to the API documentation. UI Name Component Group Seed Data Present? Seed data profile Store Configuration Backoffice StoreConfiguration Services Yes Base Till Configuration Backoffice TillConfiguration Services Yes Base Till Pickup Configuration Backoffice TillPickupConfiguration Services Yes Base Reason Backoffice Reason Services Yes Base Reason Type Backoffice ReasonType Services Yes Base Store Status Backoffice StoreStatus Services Yes System Till Status Backoffice TillStatus Services Yes System Till State Backoffice TillState Services Yes System Counting Methods Backoffice CountingMethods Services Yes System