# Basic Overview

**Permalink:** basic_overview_resilientpos
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Store/Process & Configuration Guides/Point of Sale/POS Classic Guides/Resilient Cloud for POS/Basic Overview
**Content Length:** 39,487 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:03:51.574394

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Store››Process & Configuration Guides››Point of Sale››POS Classic Guides››Resilient Cloud for POS ››Basic Overview Resilient Cloud for POS Resilient Cloud Functional PrerequisitesOffline POS ApplicationResilient Cloud ServerBasic Resilient Cloud FlowComparison - Active Omni Model with/without Resilient CloudResilient Cloud ServerPOS Cart and Backoffice Transactions which are Available in Resilient Cloud ModeResilient Cloud for Backoffice FunctionalityRecognizing Server Offline/Online and Switching Between Online/Offline Store AppsOnline -> OfflineAuto-detecting OFFLINE ConditionOffline -> OnlineAuto-detecting ONLINE ConditionEdge Server Network Status CheckPOS Offline App Network Status Check and NotificationLogging onto the Offline POS AppUser PINServices As a Cloud product, for full feature functionality the store systems POS and Backoffice rely on continuous connectivity to the complete Active Omni architecture - hosted components located outside the store, with secure communication over the web. With no Resilient Cloud implementation, a device which loses connectivity to the central Cloud will not be able to complete sales or other simple transactions as it will be unable to contact Item, Order, Payment, and other required components. Similarly, no devices will be able to perform Backoffice functions such as Open Till without connectivity to the Backoffice Component. To address this issue, Active Omni features a Resilient Cloud for POS feature for our applications during which basic functionality such as Sales, Returns without Receipt, and Till Open can be performed. This functionality will be more limited than full Active features available with central Cloud connectivity. But it is designed to allow the store to operate using a local subset of all active data and configs, and to record and store required transactional data locally as well, until connectivity is re-established. Resilient Cloud Functional Prerequisites There are two prerequisites to support Resilient Cloud store functionality when the POS App is offline to Active Omni cloud components. Offline POS Application This is the Offline counterpart to our regular POS application. It must be installed on the local device. Currently the Offline POS app can only be installed on a Windows device.  Because it is a separate application, it requires a separate set of credentials from the regular Online POS Application - see the section regarding User PIN below. Resilient Cloud Server A local device in the store which can host the Resilient Cloud components. AKA the 'Edge' Server. Basic Resilient Cloud Flow Comparison - Active Omni Model with/without Resilient Cloud 1. High level functional diagram - Active Omni store without Resilient Cloud In online mode, all service calls and data exchange occurs between the device and the full available suite of Active Omni Cloud components. With this design, if connection is lost to Central, store functions cannot be performed. POS Online application runs on local register device, and communicates with Manhattan Active Omni Cloud components. 2. High level functional diagram - Active Omni store with Resilient Cloud Functionality In online mode, all service calls and data exchange occurs between the device and the full available suite of Active Omni Cloud components. The local Resilient Cloud "Edge" server with a smaller subset of components is only called if Central connectivity is lost. POS Offline application runs on local register device, and communicates with locally installed Resilient Cloud components. NOTE that the user must switch from the ONLINE POS Application to the OFFLINE POS Application. With this design, even if connection is lost to Central Cloud services, many store functions can still be performed. A local subset of components/data/configurations is maintained and kept current via regularly scheduled Inbound Sync data transfer from Central. This local subset on the Resilient Cloud for POS "edge" server is analogous to a local 'mini-Cloud'. In the event of lost connectivity to Central, store devices can switch from Cloud Component communication to Resilient Cloud component communication. The local components allow a simplified set of transactions to be performed and data stored for them, strictly local. Once connectivity is re-established, Local devices can switch back to full Active Omni Cloud communication and functionality. The local server will communicate any data/transactions which were locally stored from local storage to the Active Omni Cloud storage via an Outbound Sync process. Resilient Cloud Server A dedicated or server class machine will not be required for most small footprint stores as the Resilient Cloud edge server. The device will be a Windows machine, which could normally serve as a Windows fixed register. The functionality would only be required during Sync operations and in the event Cloud connectivity is lost. Below is the list of components for which a local version is required in Resilient Cloud for POS application: authserver backoffice barcode config configserver configsync devicemanagement hazelcast item order organization payment posservice pricepromo receipt storefacade tax zuulserver POS Cart and Backoffice Transactions which are Available in Resilient Cloud Mode Resilient Cloud for Backoffice Functionality Store Open Till Open Till Disengage Bank Deposit Note: Backoffice reports are unavailable to view in Resilient Cloud mode. Note:During a given business day, each till can be opened only once. Once the till is closed, it cannot be reopened for the same business day and can only be reconciled. This behavior applies consistently across both Edge and Central. Resilient Cloud for POS Cart Functionality Build a Guest Cart with items, prices, including promotional pricing Tender the Cart for Cash or offline tenders as configured via Payment Device integration (i.e. amounts below floor limits) Perform a Standalone (non-validated) return - i.e. a "return without receipt" Note: Global search, Clienteling, sale of Ship to address or Pickup items, Gift Card operations such as Sale/Reload, Debit and Gift Card tender are unavailable. Note: Catalog is not supported in the Offline mode. Comparison: Online/Offline Available Backoffice/Cart Functions Function Supported Online Supported Offline Add Item to Cart X X Apply Associate X X Apply Item Discount X X Apply Promotion X X Apply Transaction Discount X X Back Office X X Back Office Reports X Bank Deposit X X Cart X X Cash Tender X X Change Quantity X X Check Tender X X Close Till X Credit Card Tender X X Customer Lookup/Add/Edit/Activate X Debit Card Tender X Disengage Till X X Electronic Journal X Email Receipt X Exchange (non-validated) X X Exchange Tender X Gift Card Sale/Reload/Tender/Inquiry X Gift Receipt X X Item Details X Item Inventory Counts (Local/Network) X Item Search X Local Tax - Includes Advanced Local Tax and Informational (VAT) Local Tax support X X ( Note: vertex edge application with the Offline POS app is not supported) Modify Associate Transaction/Item Level X X No Sale X X Non-merch Items X X - Note - non-merch items can be added to cart only by direct bar code entry (typing/scanning).  The non-merch function menu is not available in Offline Notes Add/Edit X Open Till X X Order Search X Override Price X X Override Tax X X Pay In X X Pay Out X X Pop Cash Drawer X X Price Location Specific/Global X X Print Receipt X X Reconcile Till X Reports X Reprint Receipt X Return with Receipt (validated) X Return without Receipt (non-validated) X X Store Close X Store Open X X Tax Exempt X X Till Loan X X Till Pickup X X Till Audit X User Login with Password X User Login with PIN X Void Item X X Void Transaction X X Waiting Room X Waiting Room Add/View/Activate X Web Access X Recognizing Server Offline/Online and Switching Between Online/Offline Store Apps As noted, normally the regular Online Store app communicates to Central Cloud components over the customer WAN. The ONLINE POS App - As various APIs are called during normal operation, such as processBarCode (scanning an item) or updateReadyforTender (selecting CHECKOUT), the ONLINE POS app will check the status of communications to Central Cloud. If the app cannot communicate to the Central Cloud, based on a business flag setting and the presence of a Resilient Cloud ("Edge") server in the store, the application will notify the user of the condition and (if installed) prompt to switch to the Offline version of the Store app. If the location does not have an edge server or the OFFLINE POS App is not installed on the device, the user will be prompted to exit the application. The OFFLINE POS app will check a status flag on the Resilient Cloud Server ("Edge" Server) at various intervals depending on configuration and user choice. From the Offline Store app if the status flag indicates that the Cloud can now be reached, the user will then be notified to switch back to the online application. The business flag to enable this functionality is located at POS Configurations>POS Store Configurations> Notify Online Offline. Note - if Notify Online Offline is not enabled, the user is required to become aware of an 'offline' condition based on various failure symptoms in the cart, such as inability to lookup an item or process a payment, and manually respond by terminating the Online app and launching the Offline app if installed.  Similarly, user would be independently informed when the network is restored - as with a contact from the customer Support team - and manually terminate the Offline app and launch the Online app. The section below describes the processes when Notify Online Offline IS enabled. Online -> Offline Auto-detecting OFFLINE Condition The application will autodetect two major ‘OFFLINE’ conditions with the following strategies. Cannot connect to local LAN/WiFi – the application will repeat the attempt 3 times. After 3 consecutive failures, OFFLINE condition is diagnosed. Cannot connect to CENTRAL CLOUD components – if an API call fails with timeout, the application will follow with a ping. If the ping also fails, OFFLINE condition is diagnosed. The user will receive a notification upon offline detection. If no edge server has been installed, or if the existing edge server does not have a valid heartbeat at last login, or if the Offline App is not installed on the device, then user will be notified with Retry Connection or Exit option user can retry the connection of the online application, OR user can exit the application If an edge server has been installed, and has a valid heartbeat at last login, and the Offline App is installed on the device, then user will be notified with a Retry Connection and Switch option user can retry the connection of the online application, OR user can switch to the local device offline application Note: If 'notify online offline' business flag is set to true, user will only be notified when in POS flows. They will not receive the notification to switch if in any Inventory or Fulfillment flows. Note: If the store has an edge server, but did not install the offline application onto the device, they will still receive an offline notification, however they will be unable to switch and will instead be logged out of the online app. Offline -> Online Auto-detecting ONLINE Condition Edge Server Network Status Check Process flow below shows the Edge Server regular 'polling' which checks for Cloud connectivity. Depending on the result of this check, Edge Server sets a flag as either FAILURE, PARTIAL SUCCESS, or SUCCESS. SUCCESS is not assigned unless there are 3 sequential successful checks. Note that if the previous status is SUCCESS and current check is also SUCCESSFUL the next check occurs every 5 minutes However, if previous status not SUCCESS or current check not SUCCESSFUL the Edge server will refresh the status every 30 seconds. Each check involves a DOWNLOAD and UPLOAD file exchange, in addition to simple connectivity confirmation, to confirm not only that the network is available but with satisfactory bandwidth. POS Offline App Network Status Check and Notification The POS Offline App will check the Network Status flag on the Edge Server as often as the conclusion of each transaction, depending on configurations and user choice (see below).To check if the network is restored, the system verifies the Heartbeat ID after the completion of each transaction, not in the middle of the transaction. If the network is restored, the user will receive a prompt indicating that the system is back online. If Network Status flag "Success" is detected, if configured user will be notified at the end of the next Offline transaction. The notification can be closed with one of two user selected options or, by allowing the configured App Switch logout timer to decrement to 0. If there is no Online Switch Alert Dismiss duration configured, or if the duration is 0 minutes, the options will be SWITCH TO ONLINE or CANCEL. If there is a non-zero Online Switch Alert Dismiss duration configured (ex. 30 minutes), the options will be SWITCH TO ONLINE or REMIND ME LATER. If the user selects SWITCH TO ONLINE, then the Offline application will terminate and the Online POS application will launch. If the user selects CANCEL or REMIND ME LATER CANCEL If there is no Online Switch Alert Dismiss duration configured, or if the duration is 0 minutes, then user is notified at end of the next offline transaction. REMIND ME LATER If the Online Switch Alert Dismiss duration is configured to be > 0 minutes (ex. 30 minutes), user will not be notified until the end of the next transaction AFTER the configured minutes have elapsed. Notification has a logout timer if user does nothing, they will be logged out automatically once the counter reaches 0 and will be brought back to the login screen of the offline application Users can also switch manually to the online application via switch button in the hamburger menu. Note: hamburger menu button will only be enabled if there is no transaction in progress in the cart or in back office Logging onto the Offline POS App Note: The Offline POS app is only available for Windows devices. There is currently no iOS or Android Edge app version. Login screen for Offline POS App looks similar to that for the Online POS App but requires a different password - called the user "PIN" - as the offline authentication must be done locally independently of the Auth server component. User PIN Retailer needs to set up PIN credentials for all the user in the store who will access the POS application when store is offline. This PIN is not the same as the password associated to a given user in the Org component, which is also typically managed by Azure or Active Directory, but a separate PIN used only to provide Manager Key authorization and in the event of Offline condition. Just as valid userId/password are required to run the Active Omni Store/Cart app in normal Cloud Connected mode, a valid userId/PIN will be required to logon to the Offline version of the app. Presumably, unless they have manager key grants, for most associates this PIN will be used only infrequently. To minimize any possible chance of lockout due to users forgetting the PIN, retailer is advised to set up a system "security" user with PIN for every store with permission to modify PIN for themselves and other users. With this user and pin credentials user can login on to the resilient cloud (offline) app on the device and reset/manage pin for other user. Once the pin is reset for the other user, he or she can login with the new PIN and specific userId. Steps to reset pin: Log on to the resilient cloud app using the system user and pin credentials. Go to Settings screen. Locate the "manage pin" button, and tap to select it. On Manage pin screen, enter the userId for which the pin needs to be reset, and then enter the new pin and tap OK. Now the pin is reset for the userId entered. Note: PINs which are reset in Offline are only good for that offline session. Because such a PIN was only reset locally, once connectivity is re-established and sync occurs, any PINs reset while offline will again revert to the data present on the central server. PIN changes are only permanent if they are made while fully connected (ONLINE) to Central Cloud. Services The relevant APIs are listed. Refer to API documentation for additional details on each service. Service Component Group Service Endpoint store facade API to ping server in case of client timeout /api/storefacade/info Edge Back Office Get to check for connection back to central (Only available on edge and not on central) /api/backoffice/edge/centralConnectivity