# Behavior Change

**Permalink:** behaviorchange
**Content Length:** 8,236 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:39:45.510248

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Administrator Tools ››Behavior Change Behavior Change Behavior ChangeSummary Benefits of Behavior ChangeKey FunctionalitiesKey UI AttributesLocationFAQsBehavior Change ResourceIDs Summary A Behavior Change is an application change that is mandatory for all customers. The Review Behavior change UI controls&nbsp;the automatic enablement of Behavior Changes in customer environments. An &lsquo;Enable By Date&rsquo; is displayed for each Behavior Change in the UI, which lets customers know how long of a &lsquo;grace period&rsquo; they have before the Behavior Change is automatically enabled. Alternatively, the customer can enable the Behavior Change manually through the UI before the &lsquo;Enable By Date.&rsquo; This allows the customers to try out the Behavior Change in their staging environment before the specified Enable By Date. If a customer environment is not yet live, they will get all Behavior Changes enabled as of the Available Date (in other words, these features are automatically enabled as of the Available date). Benefits of Behavior Change Informs all customers what Behavior Changes are to be enabled and when Automatic enablement standardizes the adoption process for all customers Allows customers to test the mandatory change before it gets enabled Helps to track who, when, and by whom a Behavior Change is enabled Key Functionalities Behavior change is enabled automatically once specified Enable By Date is reached Customers can manually enable or disable during the&nbsp;grace period If a customer environment is not yet live, any behavior changes are automatically enabled as soon as they are available Manhatttan Associates can manually enable or disable for all customers Tracks when a behavior change was enabled and by whom Key UI Attributes Change Name: The name of the behavior change Change Description: Short description of the Behavior Change Enabled: True indicates the Behavior Change is enabled, while False indicates it is not enabled Available Date: Earliest date a Behavior Change is available for adoption by the customer. Enable By Date: Date a Behavior Change is automatically enabled by the system (i.e., the end of the grace period) Enabled By: Describes who enabled the Behavior Change (either System or User). Enabled On: Date a Behavior Change was enabled. Documentation: Link to documentation describing the change in behavior in further detail. Location Review Behavior Change UI: &lt;https://&lt;url&gt;/cfw/screen/commonutil/BehaviorChange FAQs &middot;&nbsp; What is a Behavior Change? A behavior change is an application change that is mandatory for all customers to adopt. &middot;&nbsp; What is a grace period? The grace period is the timeframe from the Available Date up to the Enable By Date. The last day of the grace period is the day before the Enable By Date. &middot;&nbsp; What permission is required to enable/disable a behavior change? System Level authorization is required to enable/disable a Behavior Change The resource IDs&nbsp;below govern user access to the Behavor change UI and functions. &nbsp; Behavior Change ResourceIDs &nbsp; Object Type Name ResourceID UI Review Behavior Changes frameworkUiFacade::menu::reviewBehaviorChanges Action Enable omui::commonutil::behaviorchange::enable Action Disable omui::commonutil::behaviorchange::disable &nbsp; &nbsp;