# Belgium

**Permalink:** belgium
**Content Length:** 6,206 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:35:49.334159

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Point of Sale&rsaquo;&rsaquo;POS Classic Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;POS Classic Fiscalization and Globalization ››Belgium Belgium OverviewTax ConfigurationReceipt ConfigurationServices Overview Belgium&#39;s main state institution engaged in economic and tax topics is the Federal public service finance&nbsp;(FPS).Regarding fiscalization rules, currently&nbsp;there are no specific laws or other regulations specifically dedicated to the topic.* However, the way of handling transactions and issuing receipts can be concluded from the explanations provided below. Language:&nbsp;There are three official languages for Belgium. They are Dutch, French and German. Different regions in Belgium use one of these languages as the official language.&nbsp; Dutch (Flemish Region in the north and Brussels-Capital Region) French (Wallonia Region in the south and Brussels-Capital Region) German (Eastern part of Wallonia) Although there are no explicit legal requirements, it is assumed that the POS application should support one of these languages, and the language should be based on the region where the store is located. &nbsp;As per the receipts themselves, it is also expected that they are presented in one of these languages, depending on the region where the store is located.&nbsp; The locale can be configured as detailed in the&nbsp;localization configuration&nbsp;guide. Currency:&nbsp;The official currency of Belgium is &quot;EURO&quot;. The official currency code (ISO currency standard) is &quot;EUR&quot;.&nbsp; The currency denomination can be configured as detailed in the&nbsp;localization configuration&nbsp;guide. Tax Configuration Value Added Tax (VAT) is a tax on sales. The VAT payer, who must previously register for VAT with the&nbsp;Tax Administration, charges his customers a tax proportional to the price of the goods sold&nbsp;for the services rendered. This tax must be paid by the taxpayer to the tax authority&nbsp;after deduction of the VAT charged to him by his own suppliers (input tax). Natural or legal persons are subject to VAT if they independently and regularly carry out an economic activity of any kind, regardless of the purpose or the results of this activity and the place of execution.&nbsp; VAT&nbsp;Rates: VAT rates are categorized into buckets below. * Standard/Normal tax rate 21% Reduced tax&nbsp;rate: 12% Reduced tax rate: 6% Zero: 0% &nbsp; VAT Tax Configuration:&nbsp;The information about configuring the country&nbsp;as VAT is&nbsp;detailed in the&nbsp;localization configuration&nbsp;guide. Receipt Configuration A receipt is a conclusive document that confirms that payment has been made for a service/goods.&nbsp;A generated receipt needs to include: Company information Date and time of issue Serial number - unique and sequential Cash register number Store id Total amount paid including VAT VAT breakdown Discounts Item description Quantity Additionally, best practice is also to include items. All additional information such as pictures, barcodes, QR codes, promotional messages, etc. can be included as there are no legal requirements. Receipt Configuration: Configuring receipts specific for a country&nbsp;is&nbsp;detailed in the&nbsp;localization configuration&nbsp;guide. Services There are no specific services exposed for Belgium localization. &nbsp; &nbsp; * The fiscal guidelines and numbers (annual turn over, tax rates)&nbsp;are as of Jan-2024, which might be subjected to change as per local laws.