# Bi-Weekly Projections for Allocated Supplies

**Permalink:** bi-weekly-projections-for-allocated-supplies
**Content Length:** 22,599 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:37:57.612830

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process &amp; Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Allocation&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Allocation Reporting ››Bi-Weekly Projections for Allocated Supplies Bi-Weekly Projections for Allocated Supplies Previous&nbsp;I&nbsp; Overview:Variables used for computing the bi-weekly projectionsCumulative DemandInventory PositionInventory Shortage Overview: Retailers plan their inventory allocations based on the expected sales at respective stores. For that, it is important that they have visibility of how long the current inventory will last based on the current sales projections. Manhattan Allocation provides bi-weekly projection indicators for allocated supplies and allocation maintenance screens to help allocators and their supervisors review the impact of the current allocation and plan future allocations. Bi-weekly projection indicators are green, yellow and red. Green Indicator means inventory is sufficient for the bi-weekly bucket. Yellow Indicator means inventory is limited for the bi-weekly bucket. Red Indicator means inventory is short for the bi-weekly bucket. Variables used for computing the bi-weekly projections Cumulative Demand KPI demand is calculated using the KPI method configured by the user. This demand is accumulated week over week from current week onwards to compute cumulative demand for each week. Example Need computation method : Use metric from Like to like week from Last year (-52 weeks). return METRIC.SERIES(itemLocation, 'Sales', currentBusinessDate, -52, 52); Week Wk: -52 (Last Year) Wk: -51 (Last Year) Wk : -50 (Last Year) ….. Wk 1 (Current week) Wk2 Wk3 Metric (Sales) 20 30 50 -- &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Cumulative Demand &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; -- 20 50 (20+30) 100 (20+30+50) Inventory Position Inventory position is calculated for the stores. Inventory position at the stores consist of the following: On-hand Inventory On-order Inventory Allocated Inventory Inventory Shortage The system will compare the cumulative demand vs the inventory position and evaluate if there is a inventory shortage using the difference between cumulative demand and inventory position. Fulfilled Quantity: The system will compute the fulfilled quantity by using the difference between the cumulative demand and inventory shortage. Target Quantities: Target units for green and yellow thresholds is computed by multiplying the cumulative demand by the respective threshold percentages configured for item-locations by the users; attribute names : Biweekly Projection Threshold (Green) and Biweekly Projection Threshold (Yellow). Target Units Green = Cumulative Demand * Target % Green (Biweekly Projection Threshold (Green)) Target Units Yellow = Cumulative Demand * Target % Yellow (Biweekly Projection Threshold (Yellow)) Example Cumulative Demand is 100; Target % Green = 50%, Target % Yellow = 30% Target Units Green = 50 Units Target Units Yellow = 30 Units The system will compare the fulfilled quantity with the target units quantity thresholds computed above and display the bi-weekly indicator accordingly. If fulfilled quantity &gt; Target Units Green (50 Units), then Bi-weekly Projection Indicator is Green. If fulfilled quantity &gt; Target Units Yellow (30 Units), then Bi-weekly Projection Indicator is Yellow. Else, the bi-weekly projection indicator is red. Note:&nbsp;Bi-weekly indicators in Unallocated Supplies are grey. This is because Cumulative Demand and Final Inventory position is not available for supplies at DC, hence other variables cannot be calculated for DC. For this reason, Biweekly projection is not available for DC. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;