# Calendar

**Permalink:** calendar-2
**Content Length:** 7,861 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:33.009937

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Configurations&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Calendar Configuration ››Calendar Calendar &nbsp; &nbsp; Calendar&nbsp;Creating&nbsp;a CalendarEditing a CalendarField Description The calendar screen is used to configure the business calendar.&nbsp;The business calendar will maintain the current business date and define the start and end dates for time periods such as a week, month, quarter, and year. The user can generate a business calendar for multiple years by providing details like Business Calendar Type, Start Date, Current Business Date, and Years. The business date is used to determine whether a supply qualifies for allocation based on the specified threshold. Metric/Plan data are interfaced for different time periods, such as Weekly, Monthly, and Yearly. &nbsp; Note:&nbsp; The user can create only one primary business calendar in the calendar configuration. &nbsp;Creating&nbsp;a Calendar &nbsp; &nbsp;To create a calendar, Menu&nbsp;&gt; Configurations&gt;&nbsp;Calendar&nbsp;Configurations&gt;&nbsp;Calendar Enter the filter criteria and click Apply. The list pane lists the available records. Click&nbsp;Create&nbsp;to view the&nbsp;Create wizard window. The create window contains the business calendar ID, business calendar name, description, calendar type,&nbsp;&nbsp;calendar start date, current business date, and years to generate fields. &nbsp;The system-generated&nbsp;Business Calendar ID is displayed. The system-generated&nbsp;Business Calendar Name is displayed. The system-generated&nbsp;Description is displayed.&nbsp; The time periods are generated based on the types. Select the required Calendar Type from the following drop-down lists. This field is mandatory. 4-4-5 4-5-4 5-4-4 Select the Calendar Start Date from the&nbsp;Advanced Date Time Selection window. Click Apply to select the start date. Select the Current business Date from the&nbsp;Advanced Date Time Selection window. Enter the number of Years To Generate the business calendar. Click Apply to select the current business date. Click the Submit button to create a business calendar. Editing a Calendar You can edit the attributes of the existing calendar information using a calendar record.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Note: You can edit a calendar&nbsp;record in 2 different ways, like the swipe-out board, and the Edit button.&nbsp; Navigate to Menu&nbsp;&gt; Configurations&gt;&nbsp;Calendar&nbsp;Configurations&gt;&nbsp;Calendar Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. The location records are listed in the pane. Swipe Out List Select the required calendar record. Swipe-out menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Edit. In the Edit calendar wizard, modify the required fields. Click Submit to save the modified calendar details. Edit View Select the calendar record card. The action buttons are displayed in the footer section. Click the&nbsp;Edit&nbsp;button to view the Edit wizard. Modify the required fields. Click Submit to save the modified calendar details. Field Description The following are the field descriptions of the attributes available on the screen. &nbsp; Field Description Business Calendar ID&nbsp; The unique identifier of the business calendar. This field is non-editable. Business Calendar Name The name of the business calendar. Description The description of the business calendar Calendar Type&nbsp; The business calendar type&nbsp;based on the&nbsp;retailer&#39;s accounting calendar.&nbsp; For example,&nbsp;&nbsp; 4-5-4, 4-4-5, 5-4-4. Calendar Start Date The start date of the business calendar. Current business Date The current business date of the calendar. Years To Generate The number of years to generate a business calendar. &nbsp; Action&nbsp;Buttons Export Exports the list of calendar attributes, and the file will be downloaded onto your system. See&nbsp;Export&nbsp;for more information. Select All Rows&nbsp; Selects all the rows of records on the screen. Deselect Clears the selected records. Edit&nbsp; Opens the Edit&nbsp;calendar window for editing the selected record.