# Call Center Configuration

**Permalink:** call-center-configuration
**Content Length:** 22,926 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:34:44.875386

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Customer Service ››Call Center Configuration Contact&nbsp;Center Configuration Hold Payment Transaction Till ConfirmValidate Return Reason and Item ConditionView Orders Across OrganizationsEnable Item Attribute LocalizationConfiguring Pickup TypeConfiguration for Tax ExemptionConfiguration for Stacked AppeasementEnable Register CustomerEnable Update CustomerSave all Payment Types During CheckoutDefault Quote Order TypeOverride Aging DateOverride Return Payment PolicyDisplay Estimated Refund for Orders&nbsp;Order Id Prefix for Contact Center OrdersOpt in/Opt out of SMS in the Contact Center UI Hold Payment Transaction Till Confirm To configure hold payment transaction till confirmation attribute, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu &gt; Manage Contact&nbsp;Center Configuration (Call Center) &gt; Contact Center Configuration (Call Center). Select the required configuration and click View. In the Details tab of the Edit Contact Center Configuration page, select the Hold Payment Transaction Till Confirmation check box. Click Save. Validate Return Reason and Item Condition To configure return reason and item condition, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu &gt; Manage Contact&nbsp;Center Configuration (Call Center) &gt; Contact Center Configuration (Call Center). Select the required configuration and click View. In the Details tab of the Edit Contact Center Configuration page, select the Validate Return Reason and Validate Item Condition check boxes. Click Save. View Orders Across Organizations The Cross Organization Order Visibility feature enables the CSR to view orders across organizations for call center and customer engagement.&nbsp;A CSR at parent org level can view the orders at current org as well as any child/grandchild orgs that the CSR has access to. The Contact Center Configuration is used to configure the attribute to view orders across organizations. Refer to the Configuration guide for details. To configure cross organization order visibility, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu &gt; Manage Contact&nbsp;Center Configuration (Call Center) &gt; Contact Center Configuration (Call Center). Select the required configuration and click View. In the Details tab of the Edit Contact&nbsp;Center Configuration page, select the View Orders Across Organizations check box. Click Save. Enable Item Attribute Localization The Item attribute localization configuration provides the capability to display the list of locales (both user&#39;s parent&nbsp;and list of locales) on the Item Search UI.&nbsp;Refer to the Configuration guide for details. To enable Item Attribute Localization, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu &gt; Manage Contact&nbsp;Center Configuration (Call Center) &gt; Contact Center Configuration (Call Center). Select the required configuration and click View. In the Details tab of the Edit Contact&nbsp;Center Configuration page, select the Enable Item Attribute Localization&nbsp;check box. Click Save. Displaying a List of Languages on the Item Search UI for child organizations This setup explains how to enable localization in the Contact Center Configuration of a child organization so that the OrderLocale field in the order object is automatically populated based on the selected language. User Locale Configuration (Master Data &rarr; Manage Security&rarr; Users) Primary Locale Setup:&nbsp;Configure the default locale for each user by setting the Locale ID in the User &rarr; Detail screen (requires specific grant permissions).&nbsp; Example: Setting &quot;en&quot; for English. Secondary Locale Setup:&nbsp;To support additional languages, navigate to User &rarr; Available User Locale &rarr; Add and select the desired Locale ID(s). This allows users to switch between languages as needed. 2. Item Search UI&nbsp; The languages available for selection are pulled from the user&#39;s configured locales. A drop-down on the Item Search UI allows users to choose their preferred language. The item display will adjust according to the selected language. 3. Order Creation and Locale Population If no language is selected during order creation, OrderLocale defaults to a predefined value (e.g., &quot;en&quot;). Once an item is added to the cart, the OrderLocale field in the order header is automatically populated based on the selected language from the drop-down. 4. Verification After configuring the locale and adding an item to the cart, confirm that the OrderLocale field in the order object reflects the correct language based on user selection. &nbsp; Prevent Adding Credit Card Post Full Payment This configuration provides you the ability to control the addition of new credit card once the order has been paid in full. To disable the ability to add new credit card post full payment, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu &gt; Manage Contact&nbsp;Center Configuration (Call Center) &gt; Contact Center Configuration (Call Center). Select the required configuration and click View. In the Details tab of the Edit Contact&nbsp;Center Configuration page, select Prevent adding new credit card if balance due is zero check box to disable addition of payment method through new credit card after paying the full order amount. Configuring Pickup Type Delivery Method Sub Types UI enables you to configure delivery method sub types and the sequence in which they are displayed for a selected delivery method for an item.&nbsp;Refer to Configuring Pickup Type on the Contact Center for details. To configure the delivery method and their available subtypes, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu &gt; Manage Contact&nbsp;Center Configuration (Call Center) &gt; Contact Center Configuration (Call Center). Select the required configuration and click View. In the Delivery Method Sub Types tab, click Add or select the required delivery method.&nbsp; On the Delivery Method Sub Types page, select the delivery option.&nbsp; Select the delivery method sub types supported for the delivery option. In the Display Sequence, select the sequence in which the delivery method sub type should be displayed, and then select the Is Default check box to set the selected delivery method subtype as the default delivery method subtype. Configuration for Tax Exemption The Tax Exemption feature enables the CSR to mark the orders as tax-exempt for the orders placed for charity or donation purposes. This helps to notify the external tax engine that the order is a tax-exempt order. To configure tax exempt, perform the following steps: Navigate to&nbsp;Menu &gt; Manage Contact&nbsp;Center Configuration (Call Center) &gt; Contact Center Configuration (Call Center). Select the required configuration and click&nbsp;View. In the&nbsp;Details&nbsp;tab of&nbsp;the Edit Contact&nbsp;Center Configuration&nbsp;page, select the&nbsp;Apply Tax Exemption&nbsp;check box. Click&nbsp;Save. Configuration for Stacked Appeasement The stacked appeasement feature provides you the ability to apply appeasement on the resultant amount due to the previous % appeasement. Refer to Stacked Appeasements in Contact Center for more details. To enable stacked appeasement, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu &gt; Manage Contact&nbsp;Center Configuration (Call Center) &gt; Contact Center Configuration (Call Center). Select the required configuration and click View. In the Details tab of the Edit Contact&nbsp;Center Configuration page, select the Enable Stacked Appeasement check box. Click Save. Enable Register Customer This configuration enables you to display the register customer pop up while confirming the order. To enable&nbsp;register customer, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu &gt; Manage Contact&nbsp;Center Configuration (Call Center) &gt; Contact Center Configuration (Call Center). Select the required configuration and click View. In the Details tab of the Edit Contact&nbsp;Center Configuration page, select the Register Customer check box. Click Save. Enable Update Customer This configuration enables you&nbsp;to edit the basic information of a customer, such as&nbsp;first name, last name, and phone number. To enable update customer, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu &gt; Manage Contact&nbsp;Center Configuration (Call Center) &gt; Contact Center Configuration (Call Center). Select the required configuration and click View. In the Details tab of the Edit Contact&nbsp;Center Configuration page, select the Update Customer check box. Click Save. Save all Payment Types During Checkout This feature enables you to save ALL&nbsp;payment types to the customer during check out. This is a universal value and applies to all payment types.&nbsp; To configure save all payment types during checkout, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu &gt; Manage Contact&nbsp;Center Configuration (Call Center) &gt; Contact Center Configuration (Call Center). Select the required configuration and click View. In the Details tab of the Edit Contact&nbsp;Center Configuration page, select the Save all Payment Types to the customer during checkout check box. Click Save. Note: If you want to save just some of the payment types during checkout, do not select this value. Instead, define those payment types on the Save Payment Types At Checkout tab&nbsp;in the Contact Center Configuration.&nbsp; Default Quote Order Type This column determines the order type that the system assigns during the following scenario: a quote order is converted to an order (customer service order) and then converted back to a quote order. When the order is converted back to a quote order, the system will reference the value defined here to determine the order type to assign. We recommend that value is Quote Order to avoid confusion. Refer to Quote Order for more details. To&nbsp;define the default quote order type, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu &gt; Manage Contact&nbsp;Center Configuration (Call Center) &gt; Contact Center Configuration (Call Center). Select the required configuration and click View. On the Details tab of the Edit Contact&nbsp;Center Configuration page, select the correct order type in the Default Quote Order Type dropdown. Click Save. &nbsp; Override Aging Date This flag enables employees to accept returns and exchanges that are past the &#39;Days for Eligible Return&#39; value. It is only applied if the user is associated with override aging grant. Refer UI Resources for grant&nbsp;details. To configure the override aging date, perform the following steps:&nbsp; Navigate to&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Manage Contact Center Configuration (Call Center)&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Contact Center Configuration (Call Center) Select the required configuration and click View. On the Detail tab of the Edit Contact&nbsp;Center Configuration page, select the Allow Override of Return Age Policy&nbsp;check box to allow employees with the grant to override the aging date.&nbsp; Override Return Payment Policy This configuration enables you to override&nbsp;the return policy in terms of refund payment method.&nbsp;It is only applied if the user is associated with override grant.&nbsp; To configure the override aging date, perform the following steps:&nbsp; Navigate to&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Manage Contact Center Configuration (Call Center)&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Contact Center Configuration (Call Center) Select the required configuration and click View. On the Detail tab of the Edit Contact&nbsp;Center Configuration page, select the&nbsp;Allow Override of Return Payment Policy check box to&nbsp;override the return policy. Display Estimated Refund for Orders&nbsp; This configuration enables you to summarize refunds for an order edit and display the estimated refund in the payment section. Refer here for more details. To configure the display estimated refund, perform the following steps:&nbsp; Navigate to&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Manage Contact Center Configuration (Call Center)&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Contact Center Configuration (Call Center) Select the required configuration and click View. On the Detail tab of the Edit Contact&nbsp;Center Configuration page, select the Hold Payment Transaction Till&nbsp;Confirmation check box. The system will summarize the refunds and display them in the Estimated Discount section on the Payment Tab.&nbsp; Order Id Prefix for Contact Center Orders This configuration enables you to configure a simple prefix for orders created in contact centers. Refer here for more details. To configure Order Id Prefix, perform the following steps: Navigate to&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Manage Contact Center Configuration (Call Center)&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Contact Center Configuration (Call Center) Select the required configuration and click View. On the Detail tab of the Edit Contact&nbsp;Center Configuration page, enter the order Id prefix for the orders. Opt in/Opt out of SMS in the Contact Center UI This configuration enables you to configure SMS opt-in option across relevant screens in the Contact Center UI. To configure the Opt-in option, perform the following steps: Navigate to&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Manage Contact Center Configuration (Call Center)&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Contact Center Configuration (Call Center) Select the required configuration and click View. Select the Communications Opt-In to&nbsp;display communication opt-in preferences in the contact center UI. &nbsp;