# Call Center Configuration

**Permalink:** call-centerconfiguration
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Order Management/Process & Configuration Guides/Customer Service/Call Center Configuration
**Content Length:** 40,502 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:54:59.554893

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Order Management››Process & Configuration Guides››Customer Service ››Call Center Configuration Call Center Configuration This guide outlines the configuration required for Call Center (Customer Service) User Interface (UI) operations. For resource / grants details, check this page Network-Level Availability ViewStore-Level Availability ViewAdd Item on Inventory AvailabilityShip To Store Availability RuleCustomer Service Home Screen BackgroundStore Locator Map UI ConfigurationPayment Hosted Checkout ConfigurationPackage Tracking ConfigurationHold Payment Transaction Till ConfirmDisplay Customer Metrics on Customer Transactions DashboardInteraction Dashboard Time Zone for CSR Manager Dashboard Appeasement Threshold LimitsSaving Payment Types to Customer on CheckoutValidate Return Reason and Item ConditionView Orders Across OrganizationsCancel All Eligible QuantitiesValidate Shipping AddressEvaluate Shipping RestrictionsNumber of Digits Allowed for Gift CardDisplay Phone Number Prefix ValuesItem Attribute LocalizationSort values in the reason drop-downsSort the Shipping Methods DisplayDisplay Delivery Dates on Item DetailsDelivery TrackingOpt in/Opt out of SMS in the Contact Center UIRestricting Order Edits Requiring Payment CaptureCustomizing Order IDs for Contact Center OrdersView Exception SummaryUIs and Entities Customer service configuration defines the workflow for Customer Service UI transactions. When an order is created or updated from the Customer Service UI, these configurations drive the UI behavior. This configuration is required for any implementation which uses the Customer Service UIs. Network-Level Availability View This property indicates which Available to Commerce (ATC) view is used to display network-level inventory on the Item Search, Item Details, and Store Locator (network-level) pages. It is required to select an ATC view of type "Network" for this parameter. When the Item Search API api/search/product?keyword= is called to display the product list for the given search criteria, the search request is passed with the network view defined here. When the Get Availability Details API is called to display if the item is available or not, the request is passed with the network view defined here (along with the item). Store-Level Availability View This property indicates which Available to Commerce (ATC) view is used to display store-level inventory on Store Locator popup. It is required to select an ATC view of type "Store" for this parameter. When the Get Location Availability Details API is called to display the store inventory for the item, the search request is passed with the store view defined here (along with the item and location). Add Item on Inventory Availability This parameter determines whether the 'Add to Cart' and 'Add & Checkout' buttons are enabled on the Item Search screen, if no inventory is available. For example, some retailers may want to allow contact center agents to create orders for items which are out of stock if they are aware of upcoming shipments, while other retailers may want to restrict the item from being ordered. If this parameter is enabled, then the 'Add to Cart' and 'Add & Checkout' buttons are disabled if no inventory is available in the configured network-level availability view. If the selected delivery method is Pick up at Store and the location-level view has inventory, then the 'Add to Cart' and 'Add & Checkout' buttons are always enabled. This parameter is not used when creating Even Exchange orders; Customer service must have an SOP to see the 'inventory is available' message on the 'Change Color/Size' popup, and create orders accordingly. For instance, if an item is out of stock, then this parameter can be used to restrict a user from adding items on the Item Search page (for new orders or uneven exchanges), but this parameter will not restrict users from adding the item on the even exchange popup. Ship To Store Availability Rule Ship to store availability rule is used to define the list of preferred locations for a ship to store. For example, if there are 100 stores deployed, not all stores would be the preferred stores to fulfill other store demand. In such case, stores which can fulfill other store demand is defined as preferred location for that store. This configuration is at location level. Customer Service Home Screen Background Organizations can choose to provide their own Customer Service Home Screen background to reflect their brand. If this column is blank, the system will display the default background. To provide a custom background, define the image here and the path to locate it. If the system cannot locate the user-defined background, it will continue to display the base background to avoid errors. The background is defined per organization. Note: To use the original background provided for Manhattan Active® Omni, use the following: ./assets/images/3Cities_sydney-paris-nyc.jpg Store Locator Map UI Configuration The Store Locator Map UI configuration is used to select the appropriate service provider for the store locator map that displays stores during pick up in the store flow. For example, Google Maps. After the provider is defined, attributes of the provider such as URL and credentials can be added as store locator map attributes. Payment Hosted Checkout Configuration When payments are captured in the Customer Service UI, the data is captured in a PCI-compliant UI to ensure the card data is secure. To accomplish this, the Customer Service UI has a hosted checkout pop-up window that enables payment to be captured on the browser that is hosted by the payment gateway. Hosted checkout is enabled based on the gateway configured for the given order type and payment type combination. When a user selects credit card payment type, a request is sent from the UI to the Payment component with payment type and order type, and the Payment component retrieves the matching payment rule. Once the payment rule is determined, the system selects the configured gateway for the payment rule, and the gateway ID is sent in the response so that the UI can enable the respective pop-up window. For example, if a user is adding a credit card to an order which is configured to use CyberSource as the payment gateway, then the CyberSource hosted checkout is used. The Customer Service UI supports hosted checkout for the following gateways: CyberSource Payment Simulator (for internal testing) The payment rule and payment gateway configuration designate which gateway is selected for a given order type-payment type combination. For more details about the payment gateway configuration, refer to the Payment Configuration guide. Package Tracking Configuration The delivery tracking information for each shipped package is displayed in the Customer Dashboard and Order Status UIs. To display the carrier logo and retrieve tracking information via the third-party carrier API, the following configuration is required: Add a Carrier entity in the Parcel component Configure Carrier Account information in the Carrier Facility Account UI Note: Carrier accounts are configured by facility for parcel services used by stores. However, for delivery tracking in the customer service UI, no facility/location is required. Configure an account with a null location/facility for this purpose. Add a CarrierLogoURI for the Carrier entity. This attribute is used to display the carrier logo on the Completed Shipments panel of the Order Status UI and on the Delivery Tracking UI. CarrierLogoURI can hold a full image URL or a converted data URI. This attribute is clob data type and can only be configured via API; Clob attributes are currently not displayed in the configuration UIs. Based on these flags, the UIs behave in one of the following ways: If carrier facility account with null location is configured and logo is not null, then the logo is displayed, and the Delivery Tracking popup is rendered when the user selects the linked tracking number. If carrier facility account with null location is configured and logo is null, then a truck icon is displayed, and the Delivery Tracking popup is rendered when the user selects the linked tracking number. If carrier facility account with null location is not configured, then no icon is displayed, and the carrier website is launched in a new tab when the user selects the linked tracking number. Seed data is provided for FedEx, UPS, and USPS carriers. To support any other third-party carrier, the above configuration is required in addition to adding a custom adapter using Parcel:Carrier:UserExit:Track to integrate with the carrier's tracking API. For FedEx, UPS, and USPS, account information needs to be configured in the Parcel component for the third-party service - see the note above for 'Configure Carrier Account information' for required configuration. Troubleshooting Package Tracking Issue Troubleshooting Tip The carrier facility account is configured with a null location, however when I click the logo/icon, the third party carrier page is launched instead of the popup. In your browser dev tools, find the responses for these two APIs: "facilityAccount" and "shipments" when first loading the Order Status UI. In the "shipments" response, find the carrierCode which is found for the shipment in question. Next look in the "facilityAccount" API response for an account with the carrierCode and a null location. If it's not found, ensure you add it. An "Invalid Service Level" error is thrown when clicking the tracking number in the contact center UI. Ensure your carrier code and carrier mapping code configurations match the required values. See the carriers guide for details. Hold Payment Transaction Till Confirm When a payment method is added to an order, the payment component calculates the amount due and creates payment transactions based on the payment configuration for the particular payment type. When this flag is enabled, payment transactions are created on hold, which excludes them from execution to the payment gateway. The created transactions will remain on hold until the user confirms the order during creation, or confirms the changes while editing the order during the remorse period. This is applicable for both authorization and settlement transactions. Consider below scenario where "Hold Payment Transaction Till Confirmation" is set to true: CSR adds an item to the cart and selects "Checkout" CSR adds a payment method to the order At this point, the payment method is saved against the order and the calculate payment flow is triggered, creating an open authorization transaction. The authorization is marked on hold, preventing it from executing to the payment gateway. CSR selects "Place Order" The transaction hold is removed and the authorization is executed to the payment gateway. During the remorse period, the CSR adds another item to the order and enters another payment method An additional authorization is created, and is also marked on hold CSR selects "Confirm Changes" The transaction hold is removed and the authorization is executed to the payment gateway Display Customer Metrics on Customer Transactions Dashboard To make customer metrics available for agents using Customer Service only, retailers can include them on the Customer Transaction List by selecting the checkbox for the following field: Display Customer Metrics on Customer Transactions Dashboard. Once this is selected, metrics will appear for each customer, providing insights into their buying history. Note: Additional configuration is required, including grants and setting the metrics to generate. Interaction Dashboard Time Zone for CSR Manager Dashboard Configure the Interaction Dashboard Time Zone on the Call Center Configuration UI to display the interaction metrics, which displays data for one day. By default, this configuration is set to the UTC time zone. Appeasement Threshold Limits Threshold limits for appeasements may be configured in the Call Center Configuration UI. To add a limit, navigate to the Appeasement Thresholds tab, and click Add. Select from the dropdown to choose a role, select an appeasement type, and enter a value for the limit. Administrators may configure up to a single threshold limit per appeasement type (i.e Amt Off or % Off). If both types exist for a single role, then the minimum of the limits is enforced. In most cases, retailers should add a single appeasement limit using either Amount or Percentage to limit the CSRs appeasement capabilities depending on business requirements. If no configuration is added the appeasement thresholds, then all CSRs are not restricted to any amount and may appease up to the total order value. Appeasement thresholds can be configured for roles which are owned at the same level in the organization hierarchy as the Call Center Configuration. For instance, if a CSR Manager role is configured at the Sophia's parent org level, but the appeasement thresholds need to be defined differently for the child orgs, Sophia's-US and Sophia's-CA, then the role must be moved down to the child org level. Saving Payment Types to Customer on Checkout CSRs may optionally save or update customer accounts during checkout or confirmation of an order modification. Saving payment is one type of data which is saved to the customer's account, but retailers do not always want to save every payment type. For example, retailers may not want to save credit cards or gift cards due to business requirements. To configure conditional saving of payment types, use the Call Center Configuration UI. On the Detail Tab, disable the "Save all payment types to the customer during checkout" checkbox (this is enabled by default). Click on the "Save Payment Types at Checkout" tab and add payment types which should be saved during checkout. Any payment types which are not added to this list will not be saved during checkout or order confirmation. To disable this functionality completely regardless of configuration on the "Save Payment Types at Checkout" tab, return to the Detail tab and enable the parameter "Save all payment types to the customer during checkout". Validate Return Reason and Item Condition To require CSRs to enter a return reason and item condition, configuration may be enabled to enforce this prior to creating a return. Within the Call Center configuration there are two parameters to control this behavior Validate Return Reason Validate Item Condition If enabled, the system will validate that a return reason and/or Item Condition is specified while creating a return. If these parameters are not enabled, the system will allow the user to create a return without specifying a return reason and/or item condition. View Orders Across Organizations The View Orders Across Organizations flag indicates if the user can view orders for the current organization and all of its secondaries. This flag must be set to true for the parent organization and all of the child organizations for which orders should be visible. If disabled, the default behavior will be to view the orders for the selected organization only. Cancel All Eligible Quantities This configuration enables you to cancel unreleased quantities of an Item in a partially released order line. Enable the Cancel All Eligible Quantities  to allow cancellation of all eligible quantities of an item on an order line. If this flag is turned off, only the back-ordered quantities are eligible for cancellation. (for example, if an order line has 11 quantities of an item, out of which 6 are in released status, 2 in allocated and 3 in backordered status, then on cancellation, all the 5 unreleased units get canceled). When this attribute is disabled, then only the backordered quantities of an Item in a partially released order line, can get canceled. (for example, if an order line has 11 quantities of an item, out of which 6 are in released status, 2 in allocated and 3 in backordered status, then on cancellation, only the 3 units in backorderd status get canceled). Note: The system also supports the cancellation of all eligible quantities for post-released BOPIS lines. If Allow post-release cancellation is enabled in Order Configuration and Cancel All Eligible Quantities is enabled, the user can cancel eligible quantities even for released lines. Refer Cancel Eligible Quantity for Post Released Lines for late order cancellation for more information. If the Allow post-release cancellation parameter is enabled in Order Configuration, the Cancel All Eligible Quantities will only play a role when the order line is picked up or partially picked up. If the status of the line is anything below picked up or partially picked up, the entire line will be allowed for cancellation irrespective of the Cancel All Eligible Quantities flag being enabled or disabled. Validate Shipping Address This flag indicates if the entered shipping address needs to be validated agains address verification system. Evaluate Shipping Restrictions This flag enables the shipping restrictions call upon updating shipping address and shipping method on an order line. These restrictions will populate as an error message for the CSR to acknowledge any restrictions on the order prior to order confirmation. Note: These restrictions are called for all ship to address order lines and does not include pickup at store and ship to store order lines. Number of Digits Allowed for Gift Card If null, base behavior will assume 19 as the maximum number of digits allowed for a Gift Card payment. This value can be configured between 1-50 depending on requirements. Display Phone Number Prefix Values The Display Phone Prefix flag enables selection of country code value for phone number fields within the contact center application. If enabled, a country code drop-down appears next to all phone number fields. This flag must be set to true for all parent and child organizations in which CSRs work. The default country code is populated based on the Default Country configured within Call center Configuration for that organization. Item Attribute Localization The Enable Item Attribute Localization flag indicates if the user can select a locale, search items and view search results in the specific locale when enabled. Else, the default behavior will be to search and view the item list and details. Sort values in the reason drop-downs The below set of entities supports sorting of the values available in the customer service UI drop-downs: Cancellation reason codes Appeasement reason codes Price override reason codes Return reason codes SnH override reason codes See Order Orchestration Configuration for more information. Sort the Shipping Methods Display If shipping charges are configured in the application, the shipping methods will be sorted by displaying the cheapest shipping method on top of the list. If there is no shipping charges in the application, the shipping methods can be sorted by a pre-defined order using the SequenceNumber field in the shipping method definition. The shipping methods will only be sorted in the item detail screen before the item is added to the cart. Sorting without shipping charges in the edit address screen is not available. Display Delivery Dates on Item Details To assist contact center agents in communicating estimated delivery dates to customers while building an order, editing the shipping method on an order, or exchanging an order.  retailers can configure estimated delivery dates to be displayed on the item details page next to each of the available shipping methods. Delivery dates are re-calculated every time the user changes the item, size, color, or quantity. To see the delivery dates the following must be done: The call center configuration parameter "Promising Configuration Used For Item Delivery Date Calculation" must be configured with a promising configuration ID. This indicates which promising rule is to be used in calculating dates. The selected view must be compatible with restrictions and validations enforced in the calculateDeliveryDates API. For more information on this API, refer to the Calculate Delivery Dates guide The customer must be selected. To select a customer, first navigate to the customer's transaction list or customer dashboard, then navigate to the item search page (customer details appear at the top of the screen). If the customer is not selected while viewing the item details UI, the delivery dates will not be calculated and displayed. Note: UI extension points are available to capture a postal code manually and calculate delivery dates based on the postal code. The UI extension points can be viewed using developer mode. Delivery Tracking To enable delivery tracking in the customer service UIs, enable the "Track Delivery" option in the Order Configuration screen. Enabling this parameter has the following effect on the customer service application: Screen Element Behavior Quantity Status Circles With this feature enabled, a quantity detail status circle is displayed for ship to address orders even if quantity is not yet in delivered status (the circle is empty). Note, if any delivered quantity exists on the order, it is displayed in the circle regardless of the "Track Delivery" option being enabled. An empty circle is not displayed for pickup at store, ship to store, or email delivery options even if the track delivery option is enabled for the order type. Order and Order Line Status Both order and line statuses display 'Delivered' status if any or all of the quantity on an order/line is in 'Delivered' status. Completed shipment ETA The ETA displayed at a shipment level first considers if the carrier provided ETA is available in the orderTrackingInfo --> estimatedDeliveryDate entity. If so, the carrier provided ETA is displayed . If it is not available, the ETA calculated by promising is displayed. Opt in/Opt out of SMS in the Contact Center UI A system configuration setting called "Communications Opt-In" is available in the Call Center configuration. When enabled, this setting displays the SMS opt-in option across the customer details pop-up during order placement for both registered and unregistered customers as well as the register customer pop-up and update customer pop-up while confirming the order in the Call Center UI. If disabled, the option is hidden from view. Restricting Order Edits Requiring Payment Capture For many marketplace orders, for which payment is handled externally, or for certain phases of a project, you may wish to restrict CSRs from making order edits which result in an increase in the order total. While there are no grants/resources to handle this today, one way to solve this is to restrict order updates via the Order Modification Rules. In the Order Configuration UI under Modification Rules, configure the restrict-from status to 'Open' for such edits such as Increase Quantity. Customizing Order IDs for Contact Center Orders For orders created in the contact center, a simple prefix can be configured in the Call Center Configuration UI. This prefix is appended to a number to form a unique order ID. If custom logic is required to populate the order ID, see below. To customize the order ID for return orders created in the contact center, based on data from the parent order, or to use custom order ID generation logic being used in other channels: Intercept and provide the following response to the customerengagementfacade/api/customerengagementfacade/order/nextorderid API: {"success":true,"data":{"OrderId":""},"messages":{}} With this, the API customerengagementfacade/api/customerengagementfacade/ds/order/saveOrder?templateName=* is called with an empty order ID ("OrderId":"") and the Order:UserExit:GenerateOrderId user exit can be invoked. View Exception Summary In addition to grant protection, viewing the summary of exceptions in the Order Status UI is controlled by the Display Exception Summary flag. This flag can be updated in Contact Center Configuration UI. POST {{url}}/customerengagementfacade/api/customerengagementfacade/callCenterConfig/save { "DisplayExceptionSummary": false, "ConfigId": "defaultConfig" } UIs and Entities The configuration UIs mentioned in this document are listed in the table below, along with the entities. UI Name Component Group Seed Data Present? Seed Data Profile AVS Gateway Customer Service AvsGateway Yes Base Customer Service AvsGatewayAttribute Yes Base Carrier Parcel Carrier Yes Base Customer Service Customer Service CustomerServiceUiConfig Yes Base Order Configuration Order DeliveryTracking Yes Base Payment Rules Payment PaymentRule Yes Base Payment PaymentRuleGateway Yes Base Store Locator Map Customer Service StoreLocatorMapUiConfig Yes Base Customer Service StoreLocatorMapAttributes Yes Base