# Canada

**Permalink:** canada
**Content Length:** 13,419 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:35:50.098455

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Point of Sale&rsaquo;&rsaquo;POS Classic Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;POS Classic Fiscalization and Globalization ››Canada Internationalization Canada In Iris, we now support internationalization and currency rounding. This includes currency formatting, nickel rounding and tax breakdown.&nbsp; 1. Currency Formatting Wherever there are any dollar amounts, the proper currency formatting is displayed. This can be configured under POS STORE CONFIG -&gt; STORE COMMON CONFIG -&gt; Enable Currency Formatting This configuration will show the currency symbol in the appropriate location and the appropriate decimal indicator. The currency formatting is displayed properly in the UI, Electronic Journal and Receipts. 2. Tax Breakdown The taxes collected from the customer for items on a transaction will be shown on the receipt under separate buckets 3. Nickel Rounding Since in Canada, retailers no longer accept pennies as payment or provide pennies as part of change, the lowest cash denomination is five cents. POS needs to be&nbsp;configured to round to this denomination Users are allowed to define different thresholds for different currencies, depending on regional requirements. Example: If a retailer does not want to accept certain denominations though it is legally allowed, set up the denomination such that cash payment is restricted to such a threshold. How to set up Nickel Rounding?&nbsp; Highest level of basic configuration The following flag should be enabled to activate nickel rounding. POS STORE CONFIG&gt;&gt;STORE COMMON CONFIG&gt;&gt;Enable Currency Rounding This is a mandatory configuration without which the rounding does not take place even if other relevant ones are turned on. Required Base Currency Set up in Cart and Backoffice Set the Store base currency under Back office and POS store config. This determines the currency to which the rounding is applied. Backoffice configurations&gt;&gt; Store configurations&gt;&gt;Store Base Currency=CAD POS STORE CONFIG&gt;&gt;STORE COMMON CONFIG&gt;&gt;Default Store Currency=CAD Ensure that POS and Back office is configured with the same store base currency. Set up the Backoffice Denominations This determines the precision to which the rounding takes place. This&nbsp;configuration is required for each currency. Backoffice configurations&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;Store Currency &gt;&gt;Currency Denominations Choose CAD Add the list of denominations. Rounding takes place to the lowest denomination values. Hence, do not add 0.01 in a Canadian store - the lowest denomination should correspond to the regulatory cash minimum, in this case, 0.05. After these settings are configured, the values look like below: POS store config &gt;&gt; Default store currency=CAD Back office&gt;&gt;Store configurations&gt;&gt;Store Base Currency=CAD Back office&gt;&gt;Store Currency &gt;&gt;CAD&gt;&gt;Currency Denominations Bookkeeping Payment Type Configuration Hence, there is a need to create a payment type with certain specific attributes, described below. Payment type PaymentType - RoundingAdjustment Name - Rounding Adjustment Description - System uses this payment type to handle adjustment transactions due to currency rounding. Base configurations should be retained to ensure the currency rounding features works as expected. Refund Behavior - Create New Payment Method - (Mandatory while creating PaymentType) Cancel Behavior - Create and process cancel against original payment method -&nbsp;(Mandatory while creating PaymentType) Payment Type should be &ldquo;RoundingAdjustment&rdquo; as the system looks for this value to create adjustment records. Payment Type Config&nbsp; PaymentTypeConfigId - RoundingAdjustmentConfig AuthorizationRequired - False AdvanceAuthRequired - False ValidForRefund - False ChargeSequence - 9999 (Mandatory while creating PaymentTypeConfig) RefundSequence - 9999&nbsp;(Mandatory while creating PaymentTypeConfig) Payment Rule: PaymentRuleGateway - N/A PaymentRuleId -&nbsp;RoundingAdjustmentRule Description - Rounding Adjustment PaymentType -&nbsp;RoundingAdjustment PaymentTypeConfig -&nbsp;RoundingAdjustmentConfig Payment Capture Config: Payment Type: RoundingAdjustment PermitCustPresentSales - False PermitAssistedSales - False PermitInOffline - False ExchangeTenderRefndType - N/A RefundPayType - Cash ChangePaymentType - N/A CurrencyConfig - N/A UserInputForm - N/A PaymentFrankTemplate - N/A PaymentType -&nbsp;RoundingAdjustment ShortDescription -&nbsp;Rounding Adjustment CustPresentSaleSequence - 9999 &quot;PayCaptureConfigDetail&quot;: { (all properties with default values) Payment rule} How to display on UI, EJ and Receipt?&nbsp; In general, the currency formatting and locale of the store drives the display aspect. POS STORE CONFIG&gt;&gt;STORE COMMON CONFIG&gt;&gt;Enable Currency Formatting Enable Currency Formatting T will show the currency symbol ($, &euro;) in the appropriate location (leading vs following symbol) and the appropriate decimal indicator (period vs comma) for the locale of the store If this is not enabled, currency will be shown by default in format xxx.yy (2 decimal places) and with no currency symbol) Receipt Shows the Rounding Adjustment amount which can be either +ve or -ve value. Retailer can choose to show as provided by base or customize to remove or change. Electronic Journal: To get the systemically created Rounding Adjustment in to Electronic Journal, following configurations are required EJ Mod Type: EJ Mod Type Mapping: &nbsp; Flows supported 1. Sale&nbsp; In checkout for a transaction, the price in the enter amount field is not set by default to round up/down to the nearest nickel, so the user will have to manually enter in the price If the user tries to proceed with cash payment without rounding up/down to nearest nickel, an inline error will be thrown. &ldquo;Currency denomination do not support entered amount&rdquo; When user clicks on cash as choice of payment, an error message will be displayed On change due and receipt pages, we will show rounding adjustment (black text) 2. Returns/Exchange Valid Returns : When user returns item(s) with a receipt present, in the refund screen the rounded amount will be displayed. Positive/Negative Exchange Exchange tender Nonvalid returns is not part of scope as it is not working properly in Classic.&nbsp; &nbsp;