# Capacity Configuration

**Permalink:** capacity_config
**Content Length:** 9,714 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:34:37.781738

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Enterprise Inventory ››Capacity Configuration Capacity Configuration Effective utilization of fulfillment centers is achieved by capacity configuration. To utilize fulfillment location for effective capacity management, consider the following:&nbsp;&nbsp; The order allocation to locations. Restricting the order movement to locations which have reached the maximum capacity. Remove locations that have reached capacity. Capacity Utilization LevelCapacity DefinitionCapacity OverrideSite to Store Orders and CapacityPrevent Capacity Consumption for BOPIS&nbsp;Orders Capacity Utilization Level This attribute defines the level at which the capacity is tracked for the location.&nbsp;Refer to the&nbsp;How to Enable Capacity for a Location section&nbsp;for details. To configure capacity utilization level, perform the following steps: Navigate to&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt; Application Configuration&nbsp;&gt; Manage Inventory Configuration&nbsp;&gt; Inventory Location. On the&nbsp;Inventory&nbsp;Locations&nbsp;page, click&nbsp;Create&nbsp;or&nbsp;select the required&nbsp;configured location and click&nbsp;Edit.&nbsp; On the&nbsp;Location&nbsp;Details&nbsp;page, enter the mandatory values for the location, such as&nbsp;Location ID, Display ID, Location Status ID, Location Type ID, and other necessary details. Enter the&nbsp;Capacity&nbsp;Utilization Level&nbsp;value and click&nbsp;Save. Capacity Definition The location capacity is defined at the day of the week and in shift level. Refer to the&nbsp;How to Enable Capacity for a Location&nbsp;section&nbsp;for details. To configure capacity&nbsp;definition, perform the following steps: Navigate to&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt; Application Configuration&nbsp;&gt; Manage Inventory Configuration&nbsp;&gt; Inventory Location. On the&nbsp;Inventory&nbsp;Locations&nbsp;page, click&nbsp;Create&nbsp;or&nbsp;select the required&nbsp;configured location and click&nbsp;Edit.&nbsp; On the&nbsp;Location&nbsp;Details&nbsp;page, enter the mandatory values for the location, such as&nbsp;Location ID, Display ID, Location Status ID, Location Type ID, and other necessary details. Expand the&nbsp;Capacity&nbsp;Definition&nbsp;section, click&nbsp;Add. In the&nbsp;Add&nbsp;dialog box,&nbsp;enter the day of week. The valid values are 1-7. For example: Day of the week (1) - Monday Day of the week (2) - Tuesday Day of the week (7) - Sunday Enter the&nbsp;start and end time for the location to accept orders. The&nbsp;start and end time follows 24-hour time format and accepts two decimal places. &nbsp; For example: To set the time from 9.00AM to 4.00 PM, enter the Start Time = 09.00 and End Time = 16.00. Enter maximum backlog and maximum&nbsp;capacity, and then click&nbsp;Submit. Capacity Override Capacity override functionality enables you to handle date exception scenarios when location, day, or shift is overridden. Refer to the&nbsp;How to Override the Capacity Definition&nbsp;section for details. To configure capacity&nbsp;override, perform the following steps: To configure&nbsp;capacity&nbsp;override, perform the following steps: Navigate to&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt; Application Configuration&nbsp;&gt; Manage Inventory Configuration&nbsp;&gt; Inventory Location. On the&nbsp;Inventory&nbsp;Locations&nbsp;page, click&nbsp;Create&nbsp;or&nbsp;select the required&nbsp;configured location and click&nbsp;Edit.&nbsp; On the&nbsp;Location&nbsp;Details&nbsp;page, enter the mandatory values for the location, such as&nbsp;Location ID, Display ID, Location Status ID, Location Type ID, and other necessary details. Expand the&nbsp;Capacity&nbsp;Override&nbsp;section,&nbsp;click&nbsp;Add. In the&nbsp;Add&nbsp;dialog box,&nbsp;enter the capacity&nbsp;override&nbsp;ID and the&nbsp;date for capacity override. Enter start and end time in HH.MM format for override. These are the required fields and cannot save&nbsp;capacity&nbsp;override without start and end time. Enter maximum backlog and maximum&nbsp;capacity, and&nbsp;then click&nbsp;Submit. Site to Store Orders and Capacity The Order Parameter Configuration provides ability for the retailers to enable or disable the reserve capacity at the inbound store for Site to Store pick up orders. Refer to the&nbsp;How to Configure Capacity Usage for Ship to Store Orders section&nbsp;for details. To set the site to store capacity configuration, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu &gt; Application Configuration &gt; Manage Order Configuration &gt; Order Parameters Select the required parameter and click View. In the Details tab, select the Suppress capacity updates at pickup store for Ship to Store Orders&nbsp;check box to prevent capacity reservation for ship to orders at the receiving store.&nbsp;However, you can allow capacity reservation at the receiving store by clearing the Suppress capacity updates at pickup store for Ship to Store Orders check box. &nbsp; Prevent Capacity Consumption for BOPIS&nbsp;Orders The 'Capacity Consumption' Configuration provides the ability for the retailer&nbsp;to prevent capacity consumption for Buy Online Pickup at Store (BOPIS) orders at the organization level. However, users can still choose specific locations to consume capacity for BOPIS orders if necessary. To configure the capacity consumption rule, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu &gt; Application Configuration &gt; Manage Inventory Configuration &gt; Capacity Consumption Rule On the Capacity Consumption Rule&nbsp;page, click&nbsp;Create to create a new configuration. Enter the Capacity Consumption Config Id. Select the&nbsp;Do not consume capacity for Buy Online Pickup in store orders check box to prevent retailers from consuming capacity for BOPIS orders, and then click Save. The&nbsp;retailers&nbsp;can still specify certain locations to consume capacity for BOPIS orders, and these can be specified in the exclusion list.&nbsp;To specify the exclusion list, click Excluded Locations, then click add.&nbsp;In the Add pop-up,&nbsp;select the location&nbsp;and click Submit.