# POS Cart Process

**Permalink:** cart-new
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Store/Process & Configuration Guides/Point of Sale/POS Guides/POS Cart Process
**Content Length:** 90,869 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:01:43.154483

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Store››Process & Configuration Guides››Point of Sale››POS Guides ››POS Cart Process POS  Cart-Sale Functionality POS  Cart-Sale FunctionalityOverviewAccessing the POS Sale CartCart View Options - Large screen (tablet) ViewDefaultExpanded CartCart Disable option upon CheckoutAdding Items to the CartAdding Non-Merchandise Items to the CartAdding Item using 2D EPC or SGTIN Bar code scanConfiguring 2D Bar Code Scan for POSManaging the Cart Adjusting Item QuantitiesVoid item/TransactionTransaction ModifiersManual DiscountsPOS Item/transaction discount and refund thresholdDiscount ThresholdPOS refund thresholdDiscount Receipt MessageApply CouponPrice OverrideTax OverrideTax ExemptValue-Added Services (VAS) Applying VASEditing VASRemoving VASItem NotesOrder NotesApply AssociateAdd/Attach Customer Add New CustomerSearch/Attach Existing CustomerSimple SearchCarrying forward data from unsuccessful Customer Search to AddBarcode Scan of CustomerDetach CustomerRemove Attached Customer with items in cartAdding a Customer Address for an Existing CustomerAuto-populate Address SuggestionsConfiguring Address Autocomplete SuggestionsOther configurationAVS (Address Verification System)Deleting a Customer Address for an Existing Customer Adding Customer Loyalty NumberLoyalty number enablementEmployee TransactionPost VoidSend SaleOverride Shipping ChargesShip To AddressAddress confirmation on the terminalEdit Ship to AddressAuto-Populate City, State, & ZipPickup at StoreDisplay ETA for STA, STS and Pickup ItemsTax Display - Informational tax (VAT)Returns, Exchanges, and RefundsNon-standard Order Creation/Finalization OptionsSuspend and Resume TransactionsSuspending a TransactionResuming a TransactionPrice Holds/ QuotesDepositsAdditional Purchase at Pickup (BOPIS-Sell more)Deep LinkGift ReceiptsPIN Lock after every transactionViewing Register Information in the POS Application and MUP Screen Overview The POS Cart Sale feature in the Manhattan Active® Omni POS system empowers store associates to efficiently manage sales transactions. This functionality allows associates to create and manage carts, process payments, and issue receipts seamlessly, enhancing the checkout experience for both associates and shoppers. The cart function enables customers to buy items currently available in the retail space. Additionally, the Save the Sale feature empowers associates to: Ship items to a customer's preferred address from the current or another fulfillment location. Facilitate pickup-at-store transactions for items to be collected later. Add additional items to an in-store pickup order created via e-commerce, call center, or another selling location. Associates can also modify items or the overall order within a cart at any time, ensuring flexibility and efficiency. The ability to mix multiple fulfillment types within a single cart further enhances the shopping experience for both customers and associates. Accessing the POS Sale Cart Users can navigate to the POS Sale Cart from the application interface using the following steps: Launch the store application and log in using valid credentials. After logging in, the Home Screen will display various operational options. From the Home Screen, tap on the "Cart Next Gen" option to open the cart, allowing the associate to initiate or manage transactions. Note: Ensure all prerequisite setups are completed, and the logged-in user has the required permissions to perform the operations. Cart View Options - Large screen (tablet) View Default By default, customer, productivity, catalog, and other information is displayed on the left side of the CART screen while any transaction in progress, including items and subtotal/total calculations, is shown on the right hand third of the CART screen.  Not all functions are shown at all times, but are available on demand through the context ("More") menu. Expanded Cart If it is desired to focus strictly on transactional information, the expanded cart gives the user the ability to expand the right-hand cart panel to a full-screen mode. This improvement provides ample space to display more item cards and ensures that transaction options from the context menu are always visible, offering seamless access to a variety of functions at all times. This is a resource-protected feature. The Expand Icon is shown to users with the appropriate grant. To expand the cart, the user can tap on the expand icon and the UI will now show the item cards on the 2/3 left of the screen. Users can minimize the cart back down at any time during the transaction to navigate to customer profiles, catalog or transaction search tabs and can expand at any time as well. Once expanded, if the user navigates to the payment selection screen, the payment section will also display on the left 2/3 of the screen and the transaction summary will display on the right. The BOPIS flow is not available for the expanded cart. Also, the expanded cart option is unsupported in Offline mode. Note: The expanded cart option is available for full-size and tablet form factors (Ex: iPad, Windows RP9, ET51) and not supported for smaller form factors (Ex: iPhone, TC52). Note: When collapsing cart, user is always navigated back to the engage tab. Cart Disable option upon Checkout Once all the items are added to the cart and Checkout is selected, the application puts an overlay on the left-side panel of the application. Also, the Hamburger menu is hidden. Users will not be able to access the different options like Engage, Catalog, Transactions and Performance tabs from the left side panel of the POS application as long as they are on the Checkout screen. Only the top right corner option for Register Status is accessible as it's just the read-only information displayed here. Upon selecting the Back to Cart from the Checkout screen, the overlay is removed and the Hamburger menu is visible again. Users can now access the different options of the application using the left side panel and the Hamburger menu. Adding Items to the Cart Users can add items to the cart using one of the following methods: Scan the barcode using a handheld scanner or camera scanner Use a barcode scanner to quickly add items to the cart by scanning their barcodes. USB scanners are used for large devices, while handheld devices use a camera scanner. If the item barcode cannot be scanned, a pop-up message will appear: "The item you attempted to add to the cart cannot be found. Please verify the details and try again." Tap Close to dismiss the message and scan a valid item. Search for an Item Manually Tap the Search Icon on the cart screen. Type the item ID into the search field. Press Enter to add the item to the cart. Select from the Catalog Browse through the items in the catalog and tap on the desired item. Select the Add to Cart option to add the item to your cart. Once an item is added to the cart, item details like short description, price, size, color and quantity (default is 1 but adjustable) will be displayed. When a user adds an item with a price of 0 and the selling attribute flag is set, the system prompts the user to enter a price before adding it to the cart. This feature is commonly used for gift cards or custom-priced items, and the user must select 'Ok' to save the entered price. Refer configuration Guide Value Entry Required Section. Adding Non-Merchandise Items to the Cart Users can add non-merchandise items to the cart by following these steps: Click on the More Menu from the cart. Select the Add Non-Merchandise option. This opens a pop-up where users can select the non-merchandise type from a dropdown.If an item is configured with the attribute IsNonMerchandise set to True, it will be included in the dropdown list for selecting the non-merchandise type. The default selling price of the selected non-merchandise item is displayed. Adjust the amount in the Enter Amount input field if needed. The default value for this field is the item's selling price. Click on apply, to add the non-merchandise item to the cart. Adding Item using 2D EPC or SGTIN Bar code scan Manhattan Active® Point of Sale has been enhanced to allow users to add items to the cart by scanning 2D bar codes (e.g., QR codes). These codes contain either EPC or SGTIN item identifiers, which, when scanned, are automatically decoded and used to add the corresponding items to the cart for order creation. The application also supports QR codes with custom EPC/SGTIN formats through a configurable setting, enabling flexibility in how item data is encoded. In case the format is not configured, the Base will fall back to the GS1 standard decoding. Scans can be performed using handheld or camera-based scanners. The scanner reads the embedded EPC or SGTIN from the image, checks for the mapped GTIN and retrieves the appropriate SKU ID before adding the item to the cart. Additionally, these 2D code scans are also supported in return mode. If the scan fails, due to incorrect scanner set up, corrupted images etc. the item is simply not added, and no error message is displayed to the user. In such cases, users can add items through alternative methods such as barcode scanning, manual entry, or selecting from the catalog etc. If the scanned EPC/SGTIN is invalid, then the user will see an item not found error message on the application. This functionality is available in both Online and Offline mode. Configuring 2D Bar Code Scan for POS The POS application uses the SIF business flags which are associated with the RFID scan to scan the EPC/SGTIN IDs from the 2D code to decode and add the item to the cart. Below are the business flag configurations which must be enabled to support the QR code scan. Store RFID Parameters Enable decoding of unit barcode - to be set to true to decode the EPC/SGTIN RFID Enabled Flows - POS Cart : To allow the POS codes to check the item and execute the processbarcode process accordingly Store RFID Configuration Tag Decode Configuration - This flag is used for configuring the customer-specific formats of the EPC/SGTIN. Note: Item Serialization at POS - the POS does not enforce the serial number aspect of the SGTIN/EPC when the item is entered by 2D code.  For example, during a return, if the QR code can be resolved to a valid SKU on an orderline for an original sale, POS will not throw a match error if the SKU is matched but the serial number doesn't match.  Likewise, POS does not prevent the user from entering a serialized item into a sale via QR code then modifying the quantity. Managing the Cart Adjusting Item Quantities Users can easily adjust the quantity of any item in the cart using the quantity incrementor displayed next to each item. The incrementor allows user to increase or decrease the quantity of an item as needed. However, the quantity cannot be set below 1, ensuring that at least one unit remains in the cart at all times. The max acceptable limit for the quantity is 99,999,999,999. For example, if a customer decides to purchase an additional pair of shoes, the quantity incrementor can be used to update the quantity directly in the cart. Void item/Transaction Order details in the POS system display canceled lines against the specific order. An order line or entire order can be voided using the Remove Item button from the raindrop menu. Alternatively, the order can be voided using the Void Transaction option from the More Menu on the cart. When different types of orders are created (e.g., In-Store Sale, Ship To, Pick-Up at Store), if an associate voids an order line or entire order, the change is reflected in the order details. Once the order ID is processed, the canceled line is associated with the order. The quantity of canceled lines is set to zero, and the status is displayed as Cancelled. Transaction Modifiers Manual Discounts The Manual Discount functionality allows store associates to apply discounts to individual items or the entire transaction, based on specific circumstances. This functionality gives associates flexibility in offering discounts outside predefined promotions or sales events. Applying Item-Level Discounts: The user taps the item in the cart, then selects the Add Item Discount option from a raindrop menu. A pop-up appears where the user can select whether to apply the discount as a percentage or a amount. They enter the discount value. The user chooses a reason code for the discount from a drop-down list, which enables the Apply button. Once the user clicks Apply, the discount is added to the item, and a "discount pill" appears next to the item, showing the amount or percentage of the discount applied. Applying Transaction-Level Discounts: The user selects the "Apply Discount" option from the More menu. A pop-up allows the user to enter the discount value as either a percentage or amount, along with selecting a reason code. Upon clicking Apply, the discount is applied to all items in the transaction. The updated discount details are shown for each item in the cart as a discount pill, and the subtotal reflects the change. Voiding Discounts: Users can void manually applied discounts at both the item or transaction level, provided the functionality is enabled in the system. If a transaction-level discount is removed, all prorated discounts applied to the items in that transaction are also removed. Additionally, if any promotions qualify after voiding a discount, they will automatically be applied to the eligible items. POS Item/transaction discount and refund threshold Discount Threshold Discount threshold is supported for Item and transaction discount. The threshold can be configured by user roles from the config ui screen via Manage POS Configurations > POS Configurations > Threshold configurations. NOTE : Only applicable for percentage Example: If this configuration is set to 3, for that role the user can only set a discount up to that amount. If a percentage higher is set, an error message will be thrown and user will need to request manager approval. Please refer to https://omni.helpdocsonline.com/manageroverrideandrouting-configuration$pos-item-transaction-discount-threshold for more details. POS refund threshold As mentioned in the refund process guide, the refund amounts for return transactions on pos application can be controlled via threshold at each payment type and user role level. Threshold header: The header has a switch to enable refund threshold at each refund payment type.  The command name should be defined as term refund+underscore+paymentId i.e. "refund_{paymentId}", depending on which operation is being configured. For example for cash it is "refund_Cash", for gift card, it is "refund_Gift Card" Threshold detail: The refund amount is defined in threshold details and it is only by amount and not by percent. Retailers can add the user-roles that needs to be controlled in "Role Id" field and defined the refund threshold amount in "Threshold value" field. Retailer can add as many roles as required, If a role is not defined here with threshold then it means there is no limit. If refund amount exceeds the configured amount, error will be displayed and user will need to request manager approval. Discount Receipt Message A message stating "You Saved $X.XX" is displayed on the receipt when a discount has been applied to the order, provided the condition is met where the Order.StoreReturnCount = 0 and Order.TotalDiscounts is negative. All discounts that are added or voided, whether at the item or transaction level, are recorded in the electronic journal, providing an audit trail for tracking discount activities. Refer to POS Discount configuration guide for Discount Configurations. Apply Coupon Users can apply for a coupon for the transaction using the "Enter coupon" context menu option. When data is entered to cart via this function it is always interpreted as a 'coupon' regardless of any Bar Code Rule(s) for parsing entered data. The entered coupon is validated with the promo engine and if the coupon does not exist, then it will throw a validation error message to the user. If the entered coupon is valid, then it will be applied to the cart to get the benefit if the cart meets any other qualifying conditions as required. Coupons can also be entered via a scanning feature, an inbuilt camera scanner or an external scanning device.  Scanning or typing a coupon into the general item entry field requires a Bar Code rule to resolve the number to a Coupon number (as opposed to an itemId or orderId). User must have the appropriate resources to use this function. Price Override Price Override in a Point of Sale (POS) system refers to the ability of a retail associate  to manually change or adjust the price of an item during a transaction. This feature allows for flexibility in pricing when there are exceptions or specific customer-related adjustments that need to be made. Users can override the price of an item directly from the cart.To perform a price override: Tap the edit icon displayed on the item line. Enter the new price in the amount field. Select a reason from the reason drop-down menu to proceed. Once clicked on Apply, the overridden price will be displayed with a strikethrough on the original price. If manager authorization is required for the price override, the system will prompt for manager approval. A manager override widget will appear in the pop-up if the user lacks the required permissions. Once approved, the updated price will be displayed with a strikethrough on the original price of the item in the cart. Note: For returns, price override is only supported for unvalidated returns. Tax Override The Tax Override feature in a Point of Sale (POS) system allows retail associates to manually adjust or override the tax applied to a transaction. This feature is typically used for special cases where the standard tax rules do not apply. Users can override tax at both the item level and header level. "Calculate Tax on Demand" business flag is always enabled in the cart and calculated at checkout. To override the tax, users must first see the original tax of the item. This is triggered by clicking the Tax Override button available in the raindrop menu on the order line or in the More Menu on the order. The tax override functionality allows users to apply different tax rates for individual items or the entire transaction. Item-Level Tax Override: Steps to Apply Item Level Tax Override Clicking the "Override Tax"  button the raindrop menu opens a pop-up displaying the item details and the original tax amount. Users can enter either an amount or a percentage by toggling the button, followed by selecting a reason code. The Apply button is enabled once both fields are filled. To cancel, the user can click the Cancel button on the pop-up. Clicking Apply will add the tax override pill to the order line. The change will be reflected in both the transaction summary and the payment terminal. Tax overrides at the line level can be applied multiple times, but only the most recent override will apply (overrides are not cumulative). Example: If a user applies a 1.00 tax override to a line and then applies a 2.00 override, the final tax amount will be 2.00, not 3.00. The percentage tax override is applied to the line's discounted price;transaction-level discounts do not affect the line-level tax rate. Item-Level Tax override is allowed for non-validated returns, as the customer may have a different tax rate at the time of return and for validated returns, the return amount includes the tax applied during the original purchase, so the tax override option is disabled for validated return order lines. Transaction-Level Tax Override Steps to Apply Transaction Level Tax Override The Transaction level tax override is applied by selecting the "Tax Override" button displayed in the More Menu when an item is added to the cart. Clicking this button opens the Override Tax: Entire Transaction pop-up, which includes: The original tax amount for the entire transaction. An input field for entering a percentage (valid range: 0–100). At the Transaction  level, only a percentage tax override is allowed. A dropdown for selecting a reason code. The Apply button is enabled once both a valid percentage and reason are selected. To cancel, the user can click the Cancel button on the pop-up. Once applied, the pop-up will close, and a "Tax Override: %" pill will be added to each item in the order, reflecting the percentage applied. Transaction level Tax Override applies to all items in the cart, excluding return items. The Translation-level tax override will replace any item-level tax overrides. Example: If a user applies a tax override to an item and then adds another item and applies an order-level tax override, the new tax rate will apply to both items, and the previous item-level override will no longer be applicable. After applying a header-level tax override, the option to override tax at the item level will be disabled or hidden. Transaction-level tax overrides replace any existing item-level tax overrides. The transaction level tax override is not applicable to return lines, whether validated or non-validated. Modifying the Tax Override: To edit the tax amount, users can click the Tax Override button again. This will reopen the  pop-up, where they can modify tax rate or reason code. Once the changes are made, the "Apply" button will become enabled, and applying the changes will update the tax rate across all items in the cart. The new tax rate will replace the previous rate and be reflected in the transaction summary and payment terminal. Tax Exempt Store associates can exempt the tax at order level. Customers walking into the store can avail exemption from Tax by providing the requisite tax certificate number. The store associate enters this value along with the reason for exemption. This can happen while the order creation is in progress or before the order is created. In the former case, the current order gets updated; in the latter, a new Order ID is generated. Users can click on 'Tax Exempt' button from the More Menu option. When performing an exchange for a tax-exempt return order, the tax exemption from the parent return order is applied to any new items added to the cart. Value-Added Services (VAS) Value-Added Services (VAS) are optional, item-level services offered to enhance a customer's purchase experience. These services include options such as gift wrapping, monogramming, and embroidery, which can be selected during the order capture process. Key features of VAS include: VAS is available at the item level only; it cannot be applied at the transaction level. Each VAS type can have a pre-configured charge that can be overridden by the user if needed. Customers can choose one or multiple services for an item based on the available options configured in the system. When VAS is applied, the total order is updated to reflect the additional charges. The ability to view, add, edit, add notes, remove, and override the price of Value-Added Services (VAS) is controlled through grants. Applying VAS To Apply VAS, users need to click on the raindrop menu in the order line and select Add VAS option. A pop-up will appear displaying all available VAS types and options for the selected item. Expand each VAS type to view and select individual or multiple VAS options. Optionally, override the VAS price or add notes for the selected VAS. Click Apply to add the selected VAS to the order line. Each applied VAS will appear as a pill on the order line.The order total will update to reflect the additional VAS amount. The VAS price updates automatically in the payment terminal once a VAS is applied. The transaction summary reflects the VAS charges under the “Fees and Services” label. Editing VAS Click on the raindrop menu from VAS pill to open the edit pop-up. The pop-up will display pre-selected VAS options. Modify the selection, update the price, or edit notes as required. Click Apply to save changes. Removing VAS To remove an applied VAS, Click on the raindrop menu from VAS pill to Remove VAS. For more details on VAS configuration refer to the order Guide. Item Notes Item Notes allow retail associates to attach specific notes to individual items in an order. These notes are useful for capturing details or instructions unique to a particular item.Users can create, edit, and delete notes for any item in the order. These notes provide a way to document special requirements or information for individual items. To add Item Notes, follow these steps on the Cart screen: Add an item to the cart and click on the raindrop menu next to the item. Select the ‘Add Item Notes’ option from the raindrop menu. A pop-up will appear, allowing the user to add, edit, or delete notes. Saved notes are displayed in reverse chronological order within the pop-up for easy reference. To Create a New Note: Click on the ‘Add’ button in the pop-up. Select a Category and Note Type from predefined seed data. Enter a Note Description to provide details. Click Save to create the note. To Manage Existing Notes: Saved notes are displayed in the pop-up. Each note includes a raindrop menu with options to: Edit: Modify the content of the note. Delete: Remove the note. Order Notes Order Notes enable retail associates to include comments or instructions relevant to the entire order. These notes are ideal for capturing broader information that applies to the overall transaction.Users can create, edit, and delete order-level notes. This Notes provide a centralized space to include messages or directions applicable to the entire order. To add Order Notes, follow these steps: When an order is active in the cart, click on the More Menu. Select the ‘Transaction Notes’ option. This will open the Order Notes pop-up, displaying any saved notes. To Add a New Note: Click the ‘Add’ button in the pop-up. Select a Category and Note Type from predefined seed data. Enter a Note Description to provide details about the order. Click Save to add the note. To View and Manage Saved Notes: Saved notes are displayed in the pop-up. Each note includes a raindrop menu with options to: Edit: Modify the content of the note. Delete: Remove the note. Such notes are commonly useful for "Ship To" or "Pick Up at Store" orders, as they allow the associate to include specific information about the order or item before it is delivered to the end customer. Apply Associate The user is able to apply associate(s) to the item level, order level and right when the cart is launched. Applying associate(s) at Item level: Users can apply single or multiple associates to an item through the raindrop menu on the item line. Select Add Associate to open the pop-up, search for the associate, and apply it. To edit or remove an associate, reopen the pop-up through the same menu option. Applying associate(s) at order level: In the More Menu under Cart, select the Add Associate option. The associate(s) applied at the order level will automatically be added to all items in the cart and any newly added items. To edit the header-level associate, reopen the pop-up through the Add Associate button in the More Menu. Apply Associate(s) Prompt: When the Link Sales Associate Prompt is configured for the cart, the associate prompt will be displayed immediately upon entering the cart. Refer to the configuration guide Associate Configuration section for details. Users can still access tabs on the left panel, including Engage, Catalog, Transactions, and Performance, even while the associate prompt is active. If an item is added from the Catalog during this time, the item will appear in the cart, but the prompt will remain active until an associate is applied or skipped. The Associate Search displays all users configured for the organization. The option to apply an associate at the order level is available only after an item has been added to the cart. Add/Attach Customer Add New Customer Adding a new Customer - with appropriate grants user can add a new customer record to the database.  Based on configuration, the retailer may require a search prior to adding any new records. Search/Attach Existing Customer The system provides two ways to attach an existing customer to a cart: Simple Search and Barcode Scan. Simple Search Click the + icon next to Attach Customer in the Cart. Enter keywords in the Search Customer field, such as the customer’s first name, last name, email, or phone number. Results matching the search criteria will appear in a scrollable list. Click Attach to add the customer to the Cart. If no matches are found, a ‘No Records Found’ message will be displayed. To clear the search field, click the ‘X’ icon. Carrying forward data from unsuccessful Customer Search to Add When the user inputs certain values via keyword search and then decides to ADD a new customer as he/she did not receive desired search result, POS will retain data from the keyword entry and attempt to intelligently 'carry it forward' to prepopulate selected fields for new customer being added. Once the user selects "Add Customer", these values will be carried forward with this logic to the respective fields. If the input contains "@", it is entered into the Email field. If the input is numeric, it is added to the Phone field. Any other input is used for the Customer Name (First or Last). Defaulted to Last name if alpha character is entered without space. Barcode Scan of Customer Use the barcode scanner, device camera, or manually type the Customer ID into the Cart. If a valid customer ID is entered or scanned: The customer is attached to the cart header. The Customer Quick View Screen appears on the left panel, displaying customer details. If an invalid customer ID is entered or scanned, an error message will indicate no matching customer was found. The system distinguishes between Customer IDs and Item IDs during the process. An already attached customer can be replaced by scanning or entering a different Customer ID. Detach Customer A customer can be detached at any time by clicking on the three-dot menu in the customer header in the cart. Select the Remove Customer option to detach the customer, which will clear the customer from the cart and return the left panel to the Best Sellers page. Remove Attached Customer with items in cart The user can now remove a customer after adding items to the cart. A dropdown menu next to the customer name has been added, providing the option to detach the current customer and replace them with another as needed. Previously customers could only be removed from an empty cart. Adding a Customer Address for an Existing Customer To add a new address for an existing customer: Search for the customer from the Cart and navigate to their Profile. In the Addresses section on the Customer Profile screen, click the Add button (visible only if the user has the appropriate resource ID linked to their role). The Add Shipping Address popup will appear with the customer’s name, email, and phone number pre-populated. Fill in all mandatory fields. Once completed, the Apply button will be enabled. Click Apply to save the address or Cancel to return to the profile screen without saving. Auto-populate Address Suggestions POS has base capability to communicate with the Google Places API, if a valid key exists (specific for each customer). If this is present, during ADD or EDIT of an address, as the user enters data into Address Line 1 of the Address form, Google Maps will provide an autocomplete suggestion. If the user accepts that suggestion, the data will be parsed to autopopulate the appropriate fields on the form. For example, if a user types 2201 Orleans Dr into the address field, multiple possibilities are displayed.  If the user selects the first one, the city Lake Buena Vista, state FL, zip code (not shown but present) and country will populate those fields. Example - Type 2201 Orleans Dr into Address Line 1. Suggestions displayed include - - 2201 Orleans Dr Lake Buena Vista, FL, USA - 2201 Orleans Avenue Marietta, GA, USA - 2201 Orleans Dr Dunwoody, GA, USA and more A minimum of 3 characters is required to generate the address suggestion and a maximum of 5 suggestions is displayed as dropdown at one time. The list refreshes as more characters are entered in the address field, thus refining the suggestion as well. The search suggestion is not hard-coded to any specific region to retrieve the suggestions. As such, there is no location bias and the address suggestion is based on the Google cloud region. However, the application does provide this capability to limit itself to specific regions as per the customer requirement. The shipping address popup is currently not designed to handle address formats of countries other than USA. Example: Address from Australia will not have zipcode, states etc. auto populated. Also, while retrieving the suggestion, there can be a few seconds delay due to network connectivity. Google APIs are currently supported for address autocomplete only. Configuring Address Autocomplete Suggestions 1. For Existing Users with a Google API Key: If customers already have a Google API key (config/com-manh-cp-storefacade/storecommon.googleAPIKey) configured in KV Store property: Verify Places API is Enabled: Go to the Google Cloud Console. Select your project. Navigate to APIs & Services > Library. Search for Places API and ensure it is enabled. Check API Key Permissions: Go to APIs & Services > Credentials. Locate your existing API key. Ensure it has access to the Places API. Update any necessary key restrictions (e.g., IP, referrer). Note: Google plans to deprecate the Google Maps API in the near future, with the Google Places API set to replace it. Accordingly, the approach outlined for new users below will become the standard moving forward and customers currently using Google Maps are encouraged to consider converting to Google Places. 2. For New Users Setting Up for the First Time: If you're setting up Google Places API access for the first time, follow these steps: Create a Google Cloud Project (if not already created): Go to the Google Cloud Console. Click on the project dropdown and select New Project. Enable the Places API: Inside your selected project, navigate to APIs & Services > Library. Search for Places API and click Enable. Create an API Key: Go to APIs & Services > Credentials. Click Create Credentials > API Key. Copy the key and store it securely. (Optional) Apply security restrictions to the key. Enable Billing: Google Places API requires an active billing account. Navigate to Billing > Overview to link or create a billing account. Other configuration Grants: api::storefacade::googleplaces::read We have whitelisted googlePlaces API X bound configuration changes to automatically route to googlePlaces API Add the below key/value in KV store config for storefacade. This property is read both in UI and backend to support the feature. Key?Value Storefacade - restart the component. storecommon.googleAPIKey = ‘<googleAPIKey’> Optional vs Required State and postal code fields: Based on the selected country, state and postal code fields will be evaluated if this is mandatory or optional. Organization seed data for country configuration will be used to evaluate the customer address and shipping address screen. If these fields are required for a country then Save/Continue will be enabled only when it's populated. AVS (Address Verification System) The AVS verifies the authenticity of the shipping address entered during Customer Address and Ship To Address or Send Sale address add/edit operations. If the address is valid, the system will display both the user-entered and AVS-suggested addresses. The user can choose either address to proceed. If there is no match, a message will prompt the user to either re-enter the address or continue with the entered address. Note: AVS uses Cybersource for address verification. The address confirmation prompt is supported on Payware and Adyen Local terminals but is not supported for Adyen Cloud. Deleting a Customer Address for an Existing Customer To delete an address for an existing customer: Search for the customer from the Cart and navigate to their Profile. In the Addresses section, a Delete icon will be displayed against each address (visible only if the user has the appropriate resource ID linked to their role). Click the Delete icon, and a confirmation popup will appear. Confirm the deletion by clicking Yes or cancel the action by clicking No. When the Prompt Customer Search business flag is set to CART, users are prompted to attach a customer upon cart launch. The customer search page displayed  before accessing cart functions.Users can still access actions in the left panel, including Catalog, Engage, and Transactions, even if customer addition is pending. The auto-order search for returns for active customers depends on the ‘Enable Auto Search Order for Active Customer’ flag being enabled. Refer to configuration guide Customer Configuration section for details. Adding Customer Loyalty Number Store associates can attach a loyalty number to the transactions. This can be done by either Activating a customer who has a loyalty number linked to it, OR If it is a guest customer, then the retailer can directly type the number (or scan the loyalty card) from Context menu > Apply Loyalty Certificates menu option. Scanning the loyalty number on the cart. This will evaluate and match the loyalty barcode rule. When a loyalty number is attached to the transaction, the information can be seen in the header section of the application. The loyalty information will be captured on order and will be printed on the customer receipts. Customer with loyalty number - When a transaction is linked to a customer having loyalty number, then the loyalty number will also be persisted along with other data on this order/transaction and printed on the customer receipts. Guest with a loyalty number - Guest transaction can also be linked with a loyalty number. Associates can scan/enter the loyalty number of the customer directly without associating the customer to the transaction. This loyalty number will be persisted along with other data in the order/transaction and printed on the customer receipts. The loyalty number field is not editable and read only. Loyalty number enablement "Apply Loyalty Certificates" will be available on the context menu, this is enabled using Cart forms. By default, base seed data i.e. profile purpose "pos::CartEvent" will enable this context menu. User grant: "ui::pos::cart::enterloyaltynumber::admin" needs to be added to user role to view and access the context menu. Employee Transaction In order for retailers to track employee purchases at their stores and provide discount or promotions exclusively for them, user is now able to initiate an employee transaction.  There are two ways to associate an Employee number to an Order. 1. DIRECT In the cart footer, the ‘employee transaction’ function is available (assuming appropriate grants). On click of this button, a popup will be displayed to scan/enter an employee ID When an employee is added, the employeeId will be displayed in the transaction summary. This function is available both before and after a customer is activated. 2. INDIRECT An employeeId can be associated to the customer record. When such a customer is attached, the order is also auto-assigned to the associated employeeId. Note - The reverse is also true - if an employeeId is added to the transaction, any associated customer is auto-attached as well. Validations: Validate Employee Number against Employee data: When business flag isValidEmployee (POS STORE → STORE COMMON CONFIG) is set to True System will check to see if the entered employeeID is valid and present in the employee data. If there is no Employee record for that ID, an error message will be displayed and the transaction cannot be associated to that employeeID. If flag is set to False, the system successfully adds the employee to the transaction even if the ID is not present in Employee Validate Employee Number against Logged in User: Retailers can also choose to validate their current logged-in user with the employee for whom the transaction is being created. Some allow both to be the same, others do not. When POS STORE>STORE COMMON CONFIG>Validate Employee With User is TRUE, if an entered employeeID is associated to the logged in user an error is shown and that employeeID cannot be asssociated to the transaction. If this is FALSE, or, if the employeeID is not associated to the logged in user, the employeeID will be associated to the transaction. These two configurations are independent; retailers can choose to configure both or neither True. Refer to the configuration guide Employee Configuration section for details. Post Void Post voids occur when a customer or store associate wants to effectively invalidate an order.  A post void most commonly occurs when a store associate has made a mistake in ringing up a confirmed order and is analogous to an application "Undo" command, but since payment is involved, "Undo'ing" the order can be complicated and the capability is not unlimited - it will ultimately be restricted by what the types of reversals, cancelations, or refunds the Payment Gateway supports for various payment types. Unlike mid-transaction voids, post voids can occur a couple of hours after the transaction was completed. Transactions can only be post-voided in the same store and on the same business day they were originally created.  If such transactions involved card/cash/check payments, then these payments should be reversed and corresponding payment transactions are recorded.  For certain payment types such as Traveler's Check, it cannot be refunded back to the original traveler's check; instead, they are refunded via a different payment method like cash. In general, Post void functionality allows order (sale/return) and manager functions (payouts, payins, etc) transactions to be post voided within limits. There are certain transactions which are restricted from being post voided. Find the details below. Post void of E-com order is not allowed. Post void of order which is partially returned is not allowed. Post void of Purchase/Reload/Balance inquiry of Gift card is not allowed. Post void of Split Tender transactions is not allowed. Payment type restrictions - With default Base configs, Post void of order involving Debit card, Gift Card, Store Credit as one of the payment or only payment type are not allowed.  But this can be configured to allow post void if customer's payment processor supports it, via the payCaptureConfig>Detail>Permit Cancel and Permit Post Void on Refund settings for the payment types. Post void of transaction also depends on the delivery method of the order line. If it's an inStore sales line, then post void is allowed until the max Fulfillment status =7000 i.e. fulfilled. If it's a Save the sale line, post void is allowed until the max Fulfillment status =3000 i.e. released. After the released status, the units will be through the process of picking and packing from the fulfillment system, which will complicate the cancelation process. Hence, it's recommended to go for return after this point for transaction containing save the sale lines past released status. Users are able to post void a transaction, when there are no items in cart. In the cart footer, there is a button to allow user to post void, where on click of this button a popup will be displayed to scan/enter a transaction number and select a post void reason. In order to proceed with the post void, user will need to enter a valid transaction number. If it is invalid, an error popup will be displayed to inform the user that the action they just performed is invalid. If valid, the user will be navigated to the order details screen for that transaction and then will be allowed to proceed. Send Sale Users can add items to the Cart and convert a Store Purchase into a Send Sale order. Send Sale allows customers to ship in-store purchases to an address of their choice and follows the same payment and taxation logic as Ship to Address. The POS store configuration flag Allow Send Sale for In-store Purchases must be enabled for this functionality. In a Send Sale order, the customer purchases an item to be shipped from the same store where the purchase was made. Typically, the customer has the physical item in hand and wishes to have it shipped for convenience (e.g., as a gift). Items can be modified to Send Sale only from the Cart screen. The raindrop menu displayed alongside the added item includes a Send Sale option. If the cart has a customer attached, selecting the Send Sale option will prompt a popup displaying the customer's address list, allowing the user to choose the desired address and shipping method to complete the order. If a default shipping address is set in the customer's record, it will be used. If no default address is available, the user will be prompted to select from the customer's existing addresses or add a new address. If the cart does not have a customer attached, the Send Sale option will prompt the user to enter the shipping address and shipping method. Note: No inventory or capacity checks are performed for Send Sale items as the physical inventory was already selected by the customer. Override Shipping Charges Users with the required permissions can override shipping charges for Ship To and Send Sale orders. This option is accessible through the raindrop menu in the fulfillment groups. Selecting this option opens a popup where users can modify the shipping charges, including setting the value to zero. This functionality also requires manager-level authorization and is controlled by a separate resource ID. If the user does not have manager-level permissions, they will need to enter manager credentials to override the shipping charges. Ship To Address Ship to Address allows a retailer to sell merchandise that the customer does not wish to carry out of the store, or merchandise that is currently unavailable within the store, but is available at a different location or the warehouse. Items can be added to Ship to Address in two ways. The customer can choose to modify an existing in-store purchase item, or by searching for a product and adding it to a Ship to Address through the Item Details screen. Modifying an In-Store purchase into a Ship to Address order type is protected using a resource id. The availability of the item is shown under the Ship To Address icon on the Catalog. In case there is no availability for an item, the ship to address option is disabled in the Catalog. Also, the  application displays an error message when there is no inventory available and user tries to convert an order line into a ship to address type. Users can activate a customer in the Cart and proceed with the Ship To Address flow, or they can continue as a Guest by adding the address directly from the Catalog. Once the address is added, users can select one of the shipping methods as per their requirements. In case the customer is already activated in the Cart, Ship To Address will list out all the available addresses for the customer and the user can choose where they want the order to be shipped. During an ongoing transaction, if the user wishes to change the address or shipping method for the items purchased by the customer, they can do so using the change shipping address and shipping method respectively, from the cart. Users can also choose a different shipping address and shipping method for the items from the catalog while adding the item to the cart. Once the address is changed using either of the ways mentioned, the latest address will always default to the specific customer until the transaction is complete, or the user wishes to change the address again. The change of address and shipping method is protect using grants which can be found here. In the case of a guest customer also, once the address is entered for the first ship to address item, the subsequent items will have the same address populated for the next item to be added, unless the user wishes to change it again using the change shipping address/method. Note:  For STA orders, the default shipping address will be the customer's preferred address. If the user has a preferred address, it will automatically be applied each time the user selects an item for STA—unless the user manually chooses a different address. Address confirmation on the terminal When a shipping address is captured in the application for ship to address orders or send sale, the entered address is displayed in the terminal for both Payware and Adyen (Local Implementation only) for the customer to confirm the address. If the customer thinks the address is incorrect, they can decline on the terminal and the user will be taken back to the AVS screen or the address capture screen, depending on whether AVS was enabled or not. The user can then correct the address and send it again to the terminal for customer confirmation before applying for the order. Edit Ship to Address Users are able to edit the shipping address from the item line, by clicking on the ‘change address' option in the three-dot menu. On click of this button, the shipping information popup will be displayed, to allow the user to edit any of the pre-populated fields. In order to save any changes made to the shipping address, the user will need to click the ‘continue’ button, where the AVS system is called, which checks to see if the address entered is valid. If invalid, an error message will be displayed to indicate that there is no matching address found. Users can either click on ‘use entered’ and proceed to edit the shipping method, or can go back to re-enter the address If the address is valid The shipping address container will be closed, and the shipping method container will be expanded. On the click of ‘save’, changes made will be reflected in the cart. Once the order is through with the payment and completed, the different order types are grouped as per the fulfillment group id on the Order Details screen. For ship to address order lines, the grouping is based on the unique combination of shipping address and shipping method for the order lines. More details on the fulfillment group can be found here. For example: all the order lines with Shipping Address SA1 and Shipping Method SM1 will be grouped under one header. Similarly, if there are other order lines with Shipping Address SA1 and Shipping Method as SM2 on the same order, they will be grouped separately. The customer detail is displayed as per the last address used to create the ship to order line. The business flag Item Cart Grouping Field in the POS General> Common Config does not drive this grouping of the order lines. Note: When user adds a new address from the ship to address form, it is a save function. User can only edit that address once they cancel out of the add address form and edit the saved one. Auto-Populate City, State, & Zip The address search now includes type-ahead functionality. As user types, relevant address suggestions will appear. Select an address to automatically populate the form fields. This applies to all address forms and the user is allowed to edit any of the pre-populated fields.  See the Auto Populate Address Suggestions section above for details. Pickup at Store The catalog provides the users with the option to create a Pickup At Store order. Once the user selects the Store Pickup option in the item details section, they will notice a set location right below the Store Pickup button. Clicking on Set Location displays a popup with the list of stores with the available quantity for the item. In the event where a customer is not already attached to the cart, the popup will have two sections. The first section lists out the stores with available quantities, and the second section displays the Pickup Person Information where users can update the customer pickup details. Once these details are updated, the user can then select Add To Cart which will group the item as Pickup At Store in the Cart. Note: Stores with zero inventory are also included in the Pickup at store popup. However, selecting the same will change the order to Shipto Store orders. Note: The Google Maps API is currently not integrated with the Pickup at store process. The application now supports the ability to not display a specific store location in the ‘pick up at store’ popup as one of the results, if the store has zero inventory or has the locationFulfillment attribute for ship to store set to False. If no stores are available, the message ‘No Stores Found’ will be displayed. Display ETA for STA, STS and Pickup Items This is controlled by the setting POS General Config> Common Config> Display Delivery Date On Order Line. When this flag is enabled, as a ship to address, ship to store or Pickup at store item is added to the cart from the item details, users will now see the ETA for the item. As these items are added, the promising component is called and the promised delivery date will be shown on item line. If for any reason there is no information from promising, we will show the ETA as Not Available. Tax Display - Informational tax (VAT) Depending on a retailer's location, taxes to be collected on items may be configured as Sales Tax or Informational Tax - also commonly known as VAT Tax.  Based on the type of tax being returned from the tax engine, the POS system will display sales tax, (labeled TAX), in the total container, or will display Informational Tax (labeled TAX). The chart below describes the UI behavior based on the tax configurations.  Both settings are from POS Store Config. primaryTaxAsInfo hideInformationalTax Expected UI Y Y Taxes are calculated as VAT i.e. information tax. And tax labels will be hidden from the UI. Y N Taxes are calculated as VAT i.e. information tax. Taxes will be displayed on the UI N Y or N Taxes are calculated as regular sales taxes i.e. taxes on the item prices and displayed on UI. Returns, Exchanges, and Refunds See the POS Returns guide. Non-standard Order Creation/Finalization Options Suspend and Resume Transactions The Suspend and Resume functionality allows store users to temporarily pause an active transaction and resume it later on the same business day. Suspending a Transaction Navigate to the More Menu on the Cart screen. Click the Suspend button to suspend the active order. If a customer is attached to the order, it will be suspended with the customer’s name. If no customer is attached, the order will be suspended as a guest. Upon suspending, a receipt for the suspended transaction will be printed automatically, but reprinting the receipt is not possible if the initial print fails. Resuming a Transaction Go to the Session tab from the top-right corner of the Cart screen. The Session tab displays a list of all suspended orders. Use one of the following methods to resume a transaction: Select from the list: Click on the desired transaction to resume Search by Transaction ID: Use the search bar to type or scan the transaction ID. Scan Receipt: Scan the receipt to resume the transaction. When a valid transaction ID is entered or scanned, the corresponding transaction is displayed. Select it to add the transaction to the cart. If an invalid transaction ID is entered or scanned, the message ‘No Sessions Found’ will be displayed. Price Holds/ Quotes Retailers can build a cart for a customer and save it as a quote. These quotes can be retrieved later (on a different day) and sold to the customer at the price set in the original order quote. Items on quoted orders are not allocated until payment is made. Quotes are valid for a configurable number of days. For user grant configuration, refer to  User Grant Section in the POS configuration guide. For all other configurations and more details on quotes refer to Order Quotes Deposits Retailers require the ability to take deposits against certain orders.  If SAVE AS DEPOSIT option is selected, the balance due on the order does NOT need to be 0.00, but rather an order can be saved with partial payment.  In these cases, the order can be retrieved and future payments presumably including a complete payoff, made in future. In order to take deposits, users must have a way to search for these specific orders and access them. Deposit orders cannot be changed but there is a deep link to the order summary in order to accept payments. Additional deposits can be made on an order by searching for the transaction and navigating to the order details page. Once the balance due equals 0, no additional deposits can be made. All functionality, with the exception of a new grant, is identical to classic POS deposits. Additional Purchase at Pickup (BOPIS-Sell more) Associates with the appropriate grant can now add additional in-store purchase items to a customer's pickup order. This will allow the user to add the items to the existing customer order by pressing the Sell More button within the confirm pickup screen. Once the user presses sell more, they will be navigated to POS. Previously purchased items as well as the pickup item will be visible by selecting the order details within the cart Indicators will show which items were previously purchased and which item(s) is being picked up As new items are being added to the cart, the checkout button will display the new balance due Upon press of checkout, the user will be navigated to the payment screen Previously applied tenders for the original order will be displayed. Deep Link For customers who wish to take orders from the call center and subsequently use our POS system for payment, refund, or any modifications, POS provides the capability to deep link those orders. This functionality will enable the orders to be directly loaded into our POS application, streamlining the process and enhancing user convenience.  In effect, POS "inherits" an order which was created elsewhere, for purposes of payment only. This gives the customers the ability to pass an order ID to the order summary initialization and move forward according to order state. The order summary in POS may be invoked from multiple sources, both internal and external, regardless of the source of invocation, the summary will be loaded according to the order's current status. The order summary will also understand the key properties of the order like order status, confirmation status and ready for tender and accordingly allow the user to either edit the order or make payment for the order and complete the order in POS. Users will land on the checkout screen if IsReadyForTender = true Users will land on the cart screen if IsReadyForTender = false If the balance is zero (even exchange), the user will land on the receipt screen. If balance due > 0 → users will continue with sales flow with applied tenders(if any) If balance due < 0 → users will continue with the refund flow with applied tenders(if any) Currently, the order type below is not supported: The app will throw an error in the UI if the user clicks on the order below. Gift card operations Suspended orders Canceled orders With attached customer, the customer profile will not be loaded. Gift Receipts A toggle is introduced to enable printing/emailing gift receipts for the transaction in the receipt screen. When the toggle is enabled, item line will be displayed with a numeric stepper. On click of the item line, a popup is displayed to specify the items that require a gift receipt The stepper controls the number of gift receipts that will be printed PIN Lock after every transaction POS can be configured to lock the screen after specific type(s) of transaction are completed, as a security measure to prevent unauthorized access.  The logged in user is not logged off, but a 'screen saver' is displayed and no actions can be taken until it is cleared. To unlock the screen, the logged in user must enter their unique PIN. If that user is not available, a new user can only unlock the screen by logging off the prior user and logging in again. This ensures that only authorized personnel can regain access after the transaction. See the Screen Lock guide for enablement and configuration details. Viewing Register Information in the POS Application and MUP Screen The system provides both store associates and IT support teams with access to register information to help troubleshoot issues related to operations. These metrics can be viewed directly within the POS application as well as through the MUP screen for detailed troubleshooting. Store associates can view register information in the POS application by clicking on the Metrics Status icon in the POS Cart, located on the right side of the POS Navigation Bar. To enable this icon, users must have the  ui::posservice::registerinfo::read grant. The Register Information Dashboard in the POS application displays the following details: Offline Mode Status: Indicates whether the application is ready to operate in offline mode. Offline Unavailability Reasons: Lists reasons why the application is currently unavailable for offline mode. Last Data Download: Shows the date and time when the register data was last imported. Offline Promotion Service Status: Indicates whether the application is ready to use Promotions in offline mode. This is applicable only for Windows Offline Promo Service Unavailability Reason: Lists reasons why the Promotion is currently unavailable in offline mode.This is applicable only for Windows Store Status: Indicates whether the store is open or closed. If the store is open, it displays the corresponding business day. Till Information: Provides details about the cash drawer. If the till is open, it displays the Till ID associated with the drawer. Offline Unsynced Transaction Count: Displays the number of transactions that have not yet been synced with the central system. Note: The Store Status and Till Information are updated based on the online mode status and reflect the specific status for the particular device. Users can access detailed register information through the MUP UI by navigating to Application Config > Manage POS Config > POS Offline Config in the MUP screen (<omni-url>/om/home). To view register information, users must have the omui::devicemanagement::menu::RegisterInfo::read grant. The MUP UI allows users to view detailed register information, including: Offline Ready: Indicates whether the register is ready to operate in offline mode. Offline Disabled Reason: Displays the reason if offline mode is disabled. Unsynced Order Count: If any order is pending to sync from local to the cloud. File Import and Download Details: Imported Date: Shows the local device time when the file import process was completed. Downloaded Date: Shows the local device time when the file download process was completed. The data is automatically updated and sent to the central system every 5 minutes, regardless of the application mode. However, if the application is running offline, the data in the central system may not be the latest, as it cannot sync the data while offline.