# Backoffice Configuration

**Permalink:** cashdrawermanagement-configuration
**Content Length:** 10,764 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:35:42.939663

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Point of Sale&rsaquo;&rsaquo;POS Classic Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;POS Order Selling&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Special Transactions&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Cash Drawer Management ››Backoffice Configuration Cash Management Configuration ResourceIDsTill ConfigurationTill Pickup Threshold&nbsp;ConfigurationReason and Reason TypeApply Associate ConfigurationUIs and Entities The various Cash Drawer management functions are accessible via the Manager Functions menu.&nbsp; &nbsp;Manager Functions can be selected from either the Home screen or, within the Cart itself. This guide outlines the configurations required for Manager Functions. ResourceIDs Manager Functions from within the CART: ui::backoffice::managertillfunction Manager Functions from the Home screen and hamburger navigation: ui::posservice::menu::pos-managerfunctions Till Configuration After completing the store configuration, till related operation has certain settings that may&nbsp;be configured. Till Configuration Purpose countTillLoanAmount Determines how the till loan amount must be counted during till loan activity for the Manager functions. If this configuration is set as: Total:&nbsp;User&nbsp;can&nbsp;enter the total&nbsp;amount. Detail: User needs to enter the amount by each denomination. countTillPickupAmount Determines how&nbsp;the till pickup must be counted during till pickup activity for&nbsp;the Manager functions. If this configuration is set as: Total: User can enter the total amount. Detail: User needs to enter the amount by each denomination. countTillAuditAmt Determines if the till is counted by amount or denomination (for tenders where applicable) during Till Audit - Total: User can enter the total amount. Detail: User needs to enter the amount by each denomination. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Till Pickup Threshold&nbsp;Configuration The threshold amount for each currency that the store supports must be configured.&nbsp;Based on this configuration, during any till amount update operation, if the currency has reached or crossed the threshold for a particular till, the update is captured and the hasAlert&nbsp;flag is saved to the till entity. The alert will be removed when the till amount is below the threshold.&nbsp;The till amount is decreased by till pickup, returns, postvoid, payout and so on. Note: Alternate currencies can be configured to have their own till pickup thershold. Reason and Reason Type Configure the following types of reasons.&nbsp;For each reason code, the configured reason types are displayed in the UI drop-down when users are creating a reason code for the given type. Reason codes can be configured in the Backoffice Reason UI. PayIn&nbsp; PayOut Till Loan Till Pickup No Sale Apply Associate Configuration Retailers can choose to have an associate applied to individual manager functions.&nbsp; Configurations are set in Application Configuration&gt; Manage POS Configuration&gt; POS Configurations&gt; POS Store Configurations&gt; Store Common Config. If the configuration is set to true for any manager function, then the user will be prompted to select an associate prior the function.&nbsp; If the configuration is set to true, the user cannot skip the apply associate overlay. Note: If an associate was previously applied from within the CART, but no order has been created, the applied associate will be carried over to the manager function. UIs and Entities The configuration UIs mentioned in this document are listed in the table below,&nbsp;along with information to&nbsp;navigate&nbsp;to the API documentation. UI Name Component Group Seed Data Present? Seed data profile Till Pickup Configuration Backoffice TillPickupConfiguration Services Yes Base Reason Backoffice Reason Services Yes Base Reason Type&nbsp; Backoffice ReasonType Services Yes Base