# Customer Dashboard and Customer Metrics

**Permalink:** ce-customer-dashboard-and-metrics
**Content Length:** 21,845 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:35:04.007222

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Customer Engagement&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides ››Customer Dashboard and Customer Metrics Customer Dashboard Customer DashboardCustomer MetricsCustomer Metrics AttributesHow to populate customer metricsCustomer Metrics FlowCustomer Metrics ExtensibilityImplementation FlavorHow to Display Customer Metrics across multiple customer recordsServicesCustomer TransactionsRelated Articles The customer dashboard is a high-level summary view of all the customer's details and transactions. This page helps the contact center agent&nbsp;to get a quick glance of&nbsp;all relevant information about the customer they are dealing with. The customer dashboard header section has primary information such as name, photo, location, weather, contact information, and so on&nbsp;about the customer. This information can be used by the contact center agent to quickly verify the customer's identity while interacting with them without having to navigate to different screens or search/request the customer&nbsp;for such basic information.&nbsp;This section also has customer loyalty status (to understand the relationship the customer has shared with the retailer since he/she has been an active customer of the brand) and social presence – the number&nbsp;of followers/posts/tweets (to get an idea if the customer has a high social media influence and may be capable of influencing their network with views/thoughts regarding the brand/retailer.)&nbsp; The customer dashboard also has a notifications tab that&nbsp;provides the contact center agent&nbsp;with a view of open cases for a customer on the dashboard. This helps alert the contact center agent if there are any open cases and helps them quickly navigate to an open case from the notification tab. Customer Metrics Customer Metrics refer to a set of data points about customers' purchase history.&nbsp; Customer Metrics Attributes Purchase bar&nbsp;-&nbsp;Purchase bar consists of the Net purchases, exchanges, and returns for a given customer.&nbsp; Purchase&nbsp;-&nbsp;Provides information regarding the customer's lifetime value, appeasement, and percentage of the full price paid. I.e. total of all the order purchase lines&nbsp;&nbsp;(lines that are not cancelled or returned) Net purchase is customer transactions, which include sales/exchanges and return transactions. In other words, it is the total dollar value that the retailer has taken of the given customer. This data is shown in terms of the count and actual dollar value. This dollar&nbsp;value is the sum (OrderTotal) of all the confirmed orders and the count is the total number of confirmed orders. This section also has the exchanges and return data for the customer.&nbsp;&nbsp;“Exchanges” represent the total ‘same style’ exchange transactions the customer has made so far and “Returns” are the total returns resulting in a refund against the customer. All these values are shown in terms of the count and dollar value. Note: Customer Purchase history is designed to show the number of unique line items, not the total number of units sold. The lifetime value&nbsp;of a customer is the sum of dollars spent so far. It includes all purchase, exchange, and return transactions so far.&nbsp;This metric and the net purchase metric are exactly the same. The only difference is that when you hover the mouse on the purchase bar mentioned above, you can also tell the dollar value of exchanges within the total net purchase. Appeasements:&nbsp;When a customer calls in with a complaint or has had a bad experience with any order, the contact center agent&nbsp;has the option to offer appeasement to the customer. This metric captures everything that results in appeasing a customer. This will include appeasement,&nbsp;manual discounts, and all overrides. It defines the dollar&nbsp;value as well as the count of total appeasements that the customer has received so far from the retailer. This also includes price overrides, SnH overrides and VAS overrides on any sale or exchange lines. Total appeasements = Sum of all orders&nbsp;and order line&nbsp;appeasements where&nbsp;charge type is&nbsp;Appeasement / Discounts / Price Override / SnH override / VAS Override / Return fee override / Return SnH override.&nbsp;Appeasements on customer orders and exchange orders are&nbsp;considered. Price Sensitivity: Percentage of the full price that a customer pays on average. It is determined based on the absolute value of the order total excluding appeasements.&nbsp;All sale lines where Is return = False and Is exchange = False will be considered for this metric calculation. For example, Order Line No. Unit Price Discount Discount amount Order Total after discounts Order 1 1 $200 None None $200 Order 2 1 $100 80% $80 $20 Order 3 1 $50 70% $35 $15 &nbsp; Purchase Price % = Sum of all Orders (Order Line Sub Total - Line charges where charge type is&nbsp;Discounts) / Sum of all lines (Order line subtotal). Note : The order level discount is not considered Purchase Price % = 235/350 = 67% I.e.&nbsp;•PriceSensitivity = LineSubTotaWithDiscount/LineSubTotal Click to Ship Average&nbsp;- This section provides information about the average number of days it took to ship an order from the time of order confirmation. # of Delays:&nbsp;This meter scale tells us the number of delayed orders for the customer. It shows a maximum of 5 delays in the UI. Note: The delay is calculated based on “order milestone shipment date” and “latest shipment date”. If the former is greater than the latter, then the order is considered delayed. If the latest shipment date is not available, then the “Earliest shipment date” is compared with the “order milestone shipment date”. If at least one line or a qty of the line is delayed in shipping then the order is considered delayed. Miscues&nbsp;- A failure in fulfilling an order, either by cancellation from the fulfillment system or sending a damaged item, or shipping a different item altogether to the customer is considered&nbsp;as a Miscue. Note:&nbsp;Currently the logic to calculate Miscue Canceled Metric is hard coded to look at only order lines canceled with CancelReasonId = “FulfillmentShort”. How to populate customer metrics Configure and trigger the customerMetricsSemaphore job to calculate customer metrics based on the time interval specified in the scheduled job If the scheduler entry (customerMetricsSemaphoreJobScheduleId) is not there, then the order update event triggers an update. However, this will be asynchronous, so there might be some delay.&nbsp; Customer Metrics Flow &nbsp; Customer Metrics Extensibility Retailers may disable certain metrics and replace them with their own custom metrics using an iFrame. For example, if a retailer does not have a use for the Net Purchases bar but would rather display information about the customer's loyalty status, they may develop a custom Loyalty Status metric to replace the entire Net Purchases bar. Each of the following metric sections may be hidden individually: Net Purchases Purchase (includes Lifetime Value, Appeasement, and Pays Full Price) Fulfillment Miscues When a base metric section is hidden, the remaining metrics in the row shift to the left, leaving a blank area to the right of the metrics. The blank area may be used to insert a custom iFrame on the row. This gives retailers the ability to insert up to 2 custom iFrames (one per row). At least one base metric section must be hidden on the row to give enough space for a custom iFrame.&nbsp; The width and height of the iFrame for a custom metric are pre-defined. If the custom iFrame exceeds the amount of space reserved on the UI for the extension point, scroll bars will appear (vertical and/or horizontal) within the iFrame. It is recommended to set the iFrame dimensions equal to or smaller than the maximum size for your expected monitor resolution to prevent unnecessary scrolling within the metric. Implementation Flavor How to Display Customer Metrics across multiple customer records How to display customer metrics across multiple customer recordsOut of the box, customer metrics are calculated for a single customer. However, a single person can have multiple customer records in a retailer&rsquo;s system. In these scenarios, there is a requirement to calculate customer metrics across multiple customer records and aggregate them into a single view for the CSR. To do this, a custom component must intercept the call from the UI and perform a custom process to fetch Customer Metrics for all the alternate customer IDs. Then the custom process aggregates the metrics and responds back to the UI with the aggregated metrics/objects. For some metrics, this is simply a sum of all the metrics for the list of customers: Net Purchase and Return Bar Lifetime Value Appeasements Miscues Social Posts (for future usage) For some metrics which are averages, (i.e. &lsquo;Click to Ship Average&rsquo;), The o re-calculate the average based on the number of transactions for each customer ID. (i.e. Customer A &ndash; 10 transactions; Click to Ship average: 1 &hellip;. Customer B &ndash; 5 transactions; Click to ship average: 2&hellip;. Calculate new average: (10*1 + 5*2)/15 = 1.3. This is the case for: Price Sensitivity Click to Ship Average For some objects, the UI should display an aggregated list of the object linked to the customer ID(s): Notifications (this is simply a list of open cases for the customer IDs) Interactions Services The&nbsp;APIs listed in the following table are referenced in this document. Refer to the API documentation for additional details on&nbsp;each service. &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;Description Services Component&nbsp; Group Service End Point Get a list of customer metrics(s) CustomerMetrics Services Customer Customer metrics Controller GET /api/customer/customerMetrics Create JobSchedule for customerMetricsSemaphoreJobType JobSchedule Services Search Job Schedule Controller POST&nbsp;{{url}}/search/api/batch/jobSchedule/save Trigger job schedule for&nbsp;customerMetricsSemaphoreJobScheduleId on demand JobSchedule Services Search Job Schedule Controller POST&nbsp;{{url}}/search/api/batch/jobSchedule/trigger Create PurchaseMetricsConfig PurchaseMetricsConfig Services Customer&nbsp; Purchase Metrics Config Controller {{url}}/customer/api/customer/purchaseMetricsConfig Create AppeasementMetricsConfig AppeasementMetricsConfig Services Customer&nbsp; Appeasement Metrics Config Controller {{url}}/customer/api/customer/appeasementMetricsConfig Create MiscuesMetricsConfig. MiscuesMetricsConfig Services Customer&nbsp; Miscue&nbsp; Metrics Config Controller {{url}}/customer/api/customer/miscuesMetricsConfig &nbsp; Customer Transactions The Customer Dashboard provides a list of the customer's most recent orders. The agent can review all transactions, or narrow the results based on the type of order: Customer Order, Return, Exchange, or Store Sale. The agent can also provide a specific order number or identify the item Id of an order line for more precise results. The agent may also narrow returned orders by using the created date filter. The Date Filter includes the following choices: Last 90 Days, Last Year and a date range picker. Note that the Last Year includes the last 365 days. The following information is provided per transaction:&nbsp; order created date order total organization order status order number (hyperlink to the Order Status UI) ETA images of items included on the order (in the event of large orders, not all images are included) Related Articles &nbsp; Case ManagementOverviewContact Center Associate DashboardUI ResourcesContact Center Agent Inbox Customer Profile InteractionsContact Center Manager Dashboard &nbsp;