# Contact Center Manager Dashboard

**Permalink:** ce-contact-center-manager-dashboard
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Customer Engagement/Process & Configuration Guides/Contact Center Manager Dashboard
**Content Length:** 53,189 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:00:39.119673

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Customer Engagement››Process & Configuration Guides ››Contact Center Manager Dashboard Contact Center Manager Dashboard TeamsMultiple Organization Support Trending Insights for CSR ManagersInteraction MetricsHighlightsPerformance BoardCases by CategoryPast Due CasesConfigurationEnable Contact Center Manager DashboardGet Data for Existing Cases on the Manager DashboardInteraction Dashboard ConfigurationTroubleshootingReset not workingInteraction DashboardWhy are interaction metrics not being calculated?Interaction SLA report does not display dataRelated Articles The CSR Manager Dashboard enables the manager to get a quick glance at the total number of open/unassigned/progress/closed cases for a team as well as an overview of the cases assigned to them. It also provides an insight into agent performance for the selected team(s), in progress, and closed. It also gives a graphical representation of cases by category and the past due cases that need immediate attention based on priority. Note: The manager should have the required grant (customerengagementfacade::manager-dashboard::admin) to view the dashboard. This dashboard provides data for the days past in the current month and for the last three months. For example, on 9th August, the manager will be able to view the data for the last three months(May to July) along with the data for the first 9 days of August. Teams The dashboard operates using team related data. At least one team must be defined for the dashboard to provide any values. All organizations must have at least one team defined for their data to be viewed on the Manager's Dashboard. The manager can select a team at the top of the page to view the details. The team drop-down displays a maximum of 50 teams. If there are more teams, the manager can start typing ahead in the team drop-down to get more refined results. The dashboard includes filter capability: the manager can create a filter of teams that they regularly monitor and save it as a default. If no filter is predefined, the dashboard will open with one of the teams assigned to the manager. If the manager belongs to multiple teams, the system will pick the team based on alphabetical order and display the first team's results on the landing page. Note: if the manager selects more teams than can be displayed, they can scroll through the teams to remove one. If they are using a Windows device: scroll by placing the cursor anywhere in the list of teams, choosing the shift button and using the mouse scroll to move through the teams. Managers can also select teams using the team drop down. Multiple Organization Support The Manager Dashboard supports multi-org functionality, allowing managers to monitor team activity across organizations. The dashboard honors hierarchical organizations, meaning that if you select an organization, the system will include data for all its child and grandchild organizations (providing you have access). Use the Organization drop-down to select an organization; the system will provide access to all teams associated with the organization and its child/grandchild organizations, provided that you have a user org record defined for each organization. All the data on the dashboard, including all metrics and the Performance Board is for the teams selected; when teams across multiple organizations are selected, the data is considered cross org. If you select an organization without any children or grandchildren, you will have access to only its teams. Trending Insights for CSR Managers The Trending Topics & Insights feature provides Contact Center Managers with visibility into the most frequently discussed topics across customer interactions. This allows managers to stay informed about emerging issues and take necessary actions based on real-time insights. The system displays the top 10 trending topics/insights from the past 5 days, dynamically updated based on case descriptions. Topics are identified by analyzing case descriptions and ranking them based on frequency. These topics may include customer satisfaction issues, product feedback, or recurring service-related concerns. Data is aggregated from all communication channels, including phone, chat, email, and other integrated support channels. The analysis considers case descriptions from all cases within the past 5 days, regardless of their status (open, closed, or resolved). Each trending topic includes: Short Description: A concise 5-word summary that appears on each tile within the Trending Topics section. Long Description: A detailed 10-15 word explanation that appears when hovering over each tile. On the Manager Dashboard, trending topics are displayed dynamically, and each tile displays the number of times the topic was discussed across all cases. Each tile is also clickable, allowing users to drill down into the relevant cases that have the topic being discussed. Note: The accuracy of the analysis depends on the level of detail provided in case descriptions. Agents are encouraged to save cases with comprehensive descriptions to ensure precise insights. For retailers using Agent Inbox, the Generate button in the interaction wrap-up can leverage Gen AI to automatically populate a detailed case description based on the entire conversation before wrapping up the interaction. Trending topics are displayed only for the selected organization, whether it is a parent or a child organization. If the selected organization is a parent organization, the results will not automatically include the data from the respective child orgs as well.The user must switch to a child organization to view its trending topics. Interaction Metrics The interaction metrics provide insight into the interactions, like live chat, email and text (SMS and WhatsApp) with respect to handling customer support interactions to help CSR managers to continuously fine tune the system. Note: The interaction metric displays data for one day - in the time zone configured on call center configuration. The interaction metrics mentioned in the tables below are team agnostic and are for ALL interactions within the organization. When viewed at the parent organization level, metrics will reflect interactions for both the parent organization and all associated child organizations. When viewed at the child organization level, metrics will show only the interactions within that specific child organization. The below-mentioned metrics are displayed by the system in the interaction metrics. Chat - for Interaction Type 'Chat' Metric Description Notes Currently Waiting This metric represents the number of chat interactions that are currently waiting for an agent and team to be assigned to it. It does not include closed interactions. The currently waiting chat interaction does not have the team and agent associated to it. Hence, the team filter will not have any impact on this metric. If a chat interaction was received, but no agent was available, then it will be considered for this metric or if a chat interaction is bounced from one agent to another and exhausts all agents since none of them responded, it will be counted for calculating this metric. This metric should NOT be significantly higher; a higher number may indicate inefficient routing configurations. Total Requests This metric represents the total number of chat interactions that have been requested by customers for conversation with a live agent. This metric does not represent the total number of chat interactions initiated in the system and were resolved by the chatbot without any request to connect to a live agent. This metric should NOT be significantly higher if a chatbot is being used; a higher number may indicate that many customers are opting to talk to live agents and the chatbot needs to be improved for resolving customer requests. Requires configuration for aggregation framework Waited in Queue This metric represents the total number of chat interactions that waited in a queue for a team/agent to be assigned. This metric is the historical representation of the "current waiting" metric, and does not mean that these interactions are still waiting for an agent to be assigned. If an interaction waits in a queue during any point of its lifecycle, it will be considered for this metric. This metric will be populated after the interaction is closed or wrapped up. This metric should NOT be significantly higher; a higher number may indicate inefficient routing configurations, inadequate capacity, and so on. Requires configuration for aggregation framework Within Service Level Agreements(SLA) This metric represents the number of chat interactions that were answered (first reply) within the configured interaction SLA configured in the interaction configuration. If an agent responds to the chat within the configured interaction SLA (for example, 5 minutes), it goes to this metric. This metric will be populated after the interaction is closed or wrapped up. If no time is configured in the interaction SLA within the interaction configuration, then every new interaction that creates a case will be considered for the within SLA metric. This metric should be significantly higher; a higher number indicates higher first time resolution rates. Requires configuration for aggregation framework Missed This metric represents the number of chat interactions that were NEVER replied to by an agent. Missed interactions represent the total number of chat interactions that were not served/replied to by the assigned agent throughout the life cycle of the interaction until it is closed, including the interactions abandoned by the customers waiting for the reply. This metric will be populated after the interaction is closed or wrapped up. This metric should NOT be significantly higher; a higher number may indicate inefficient routing configurations, inadequate capacity, and so on. Requires configuration for aggregation framework Email - for Interaction Type 'Email' Metric Description Notes Currently Waiting Represents the number of email interactions that are currently waiting for an agent and team to be assigned to it. It does not include closed interactions. This metric should NOT be significantly higher; a higher number may indicate inefficient routing configurations or low agent capacity. Total Requests Represents the total number of email interactions that have been received Requires configuration for aggregation framework Within SLA This metric represents the number of email interactions that were answered (first reply) within the configured interaction SLA configured in the interaction configuration. If an agent responds to the email within the configured interaction SLA (for example, 5 minutes), it goes to this metric. If no time is configured in the interaction SLA within the interaction configuration, then every new interaction that creates a case will be considered for the within SLA metric. This metric will be populated after the interaction is closed or wrapped up. This metric should be significantly higher; a higher number indicates higher first time resolution rates. Requires configuration for aggregation framework Message - for Interaction Types 'SMS' and 'WhatsApp' Metric Description Notes Currently Waiting This metric represents the number of SMS/WhatsApp interactions that are currently waiting for an agent and team to be assigned to it. It does not include closed interactions. The currently waiting SMS/WhatsApp interaction does not have the team and agent associated to it. Hence, the team filter will not have any impact on this metric. If an SMS/WhatsApp interaction was received, but no agent was available, then it would be considered for this metric. Alternatively, if an SMS/WhatsAppp interaction is bounced from one agent to another and exhausts all agents since none of them responded, it will be counted for calculating this metric. This metric should NOT be significantly higher; a higher number may indicate inefficient routing configurations. Total Requests Represents the total number of SMS/WhatsApp interactions that have been received Requires configuration for aggregation framework Waited in Queue This metric represents the total number of SMS/WhatsApp interactions that waited in a queue for a team/agent to be assigned. This metric is the historical representation of the "current waiting" metric, and does not mean that these interactions are still waiting for an agent to be assigned. If an interaction waits in a queue during any point of its lifecycle, it will be considered for this metric. This metric will be populated after the interaction is closed or wrapped up. This metric should NOT be significantly higher; a higher number may indicate inefficient routing configurations, inadequate capacity, and so on. Requires configuration for aggregation framework Within SLA This metric represents the number of SMS/WhatsApp interactions that were answered (first reply) within the configured interaction SLA configured in the interaction configuration. If an agent responds to the SMS/WhatsApp within the configured interaction SLA (e.g., 5 minutes), it goes to this metric. If no time is configured in the interaction SLA within the interaction configuration, then every new interaction that creates a case will be considered for the within SLA metric. This metric will be populated after the interaction is closed or wrapped up. This metric should be significantly higher; a higher number indicates higher first time resolution rates. Requires configuration for aggregation framework Missed Represents the number of SMS/WhatsApp interactions that were NEVER replied to by an agent This metric should NOT be significantly higher; a higher number may indicate inefficient routing configurations, inadequate capacity, and so on. This metric will be populated after the interaction is closed or wrapped up. Requires configuration for aggregation framework Note: If any of the interactions mentioned above are not being created in the system, the respective metrics will display NA, and the interaction dashboard section or the individual metrics cannot be hidden. If the user is viewing these metrics at the parent level organization, the results for the metrics will be shown for all interactions in the parent organization as well as all its child organizations as well. If the user is viewing these metrics at the child level organization, the results for the metrics will be shown only for the interactions in the child organization. When one interaction is active and is being worked on by an agent, if any subsequent interaction is received from a different interaction type, the 2nd interaction will be ignored for metric calculation. Ensure you have the following profiles available for your child organization if you need to see the above metrics accurately at the child organization level. ago::goalConfig ago::overrides ago::aggregationConfig Certain configurations from the backend are required for the metrics to display on the interaction dashboard. Refer to Interaction Dashboard Configuration for more details. Highlights Displays the total number of open cases, unassigned cases, cases in progress, cases closed today, average customer rating and cases assigned to the logged-in user for the selected team(s). You can click on each of these to take you to the cases list page to get more details on the cases. Note that the total number of open/unassigned/in progress cases on the dashboard is displayed based on the last three months and the days past in the current month's data, but the cases closed today display the number of cases closed as of the current day and the "Cases assigned to me" tile shows the cases that are assigned to the logged-in user and are not closed yet. The average customer rating is based on today's average score for the agents on the teams selected. Performance Board This section allows the manager to check the team’s performance, determine if any agents need work and change the status of agents. It will display all members of the teams selected, including agents not currently assigned work. If an agent is associated with multiple teams, the system will aggregate their data for all teams and show one record for the user. Agent Name/User ID: The board will display the agent's first and last name, as defined on their user record. If no name is defined, the system will display their User ID. Note that the agent name is not required to be unique in the system; therefore, if two people have the same name, you will see two records for that name on the Performance Board. The username includes hover functionality to view the User ID. Agent CSAT Rating: Today's average CSAT score for the agent. The CSAT rating is the score a customer gives regarding their customer service interaction with an agent. If the agent does not have a CSAT score for today, the Performance Board will not include the label 'Rating', since some retailers will not be utilizing the CSAT score feature. If the agent's CSAT score today is higher than their score for the last rolling 30 days, the system will also display a green arrow: the manager can hover over the green arrow to see the agent's rolling 30 day CSAT score. If the agent's CSAT score today is lower than their score for the last rolling 30 days, the system will display a red arrow: the manager can hover over the red arrow to see the agent's 30 day CSAT score. The rolling 30 days includes today's date. Note: When a customer provides a survey score at the end of a live chat, the system stores the agent's User ID; the retailer can interface survey scores for email and text (SMS and WhatsApp) and include the agent's user ID. Agent Status: For each agent, the board includes their current status. The manager can change the status so that the agent can accept work, or be removed from the routing if they are unavailable. Agents are automatically sorted by their availability status on the manager's dashboard, prioritizing available agents for quick identification. Managers can optionally re-sort agents based on other criteria, if needed. Agent Assigned vs Capacity: This section shows the number of interactions assigned to an agent, compared to the maximum number that the agent can support. The layout is X/Y, with X being assigned interactions and Y being the capacity. For example, if the agent's email capacity is 5 interactions, and the agent is assigned 2 interactions, the system displays 2/5. Once the agent has wrapped up the two interactions, the system will display 1/5, indicating to the manager that the agent is currently not assigned any email interactions. If an agent has never been assigned an interaction for a channel, the system will display - / -. Once the agent is assigned an interaction for that channel, the system will populate both the assigned and capacity values. If a manager changes the agent's capacity for an interaction type, the manager dashboard will reflect those changes once the agent wraps up an interaction or is assigned a new one (for that interaction type). If the manager changes the capacity to less than the current assigned amount, the system will not reassign any of her interactions. For example, assume that the agent's email capacity is 10 and the manager changes the capacity to 8; and assume the agent currently has 10 emails assigned, the agent wraps up 1 email interaction: the agent's assigned vs capacity will appear as 9/8. The possible interaction channels that can be assigned to an agent are Chat, Email and Message. The Message channel can include the following: SMS, WhatsApp. Note: If the agent's status is Not Available, the dashboard will hide the assigned vs capacity values, to save vertical space to make scrolling between agents easier. Agent Cases: For each agent, the board identifies a count of the following: total open cases, total in progress cases, total closed cases. Each count includes all cases associated with the agent in that particular status; if an agent is working on multiple teams, the count reflects their work for all the teams. The open case count and the in progress case count are hyperlinks: when the manager selects the hyperlink, the system displays the Case UI, pre-filtered for that agent and the cases (either open or in progress).  Note that the records on the performance board can be sorted by Total Open, Total In Progress, and Total Closed columns, but not by the name of the agents. The manager dashboard updates every minute to reflect the latest agent availability, performance metrics, and other data, while retaining saved filters and sorting criteria, allowing uninterrupted actions such as updating agent availability or selecting teams, and displaying a “Next Refresh In” countdown timer at the top-right corner to indicate the next refresh. Cases by Category This is a graphical representation of the number of open cases under each of the top 10 case categories. You can click on the bar graph to take you to the cases list page to get more details on the cases. Past Due Cases This is used to take a quick look at cases that are not yet closed but past the due date and need immediate attention based on priority. It displays the total number of missed cases that have past due and the number of critical priority, high priority, medium priority, and low priority past due cases. You can click on each of these to take you to the cases list page to get more details on the cases. Note: Agents that have the grant (customerengagementfacade::manager-dashboard::admin) to view the manager dashboard will always see the CSR manager dashboard as their landing/home page. If the agent does not have the grant/permission to the manager dashboard, they will see the Contact Center Associate dashboard as their landing/home page. Configuration Enable Contact Center Manager Dashboard To enable the enhanced UI for the CSR manager: Navigate to Menu > Proactive > Proactive Menu > Functional Config > Review Behavior Changes. For the record with Change Name as 'OM - Enable Contact Center Manager Dashboard ', set Enabled to 'true'. If not enabled by the Must Enable By Date listed in this UI, the enhanced UI will automatically be enabled on this date if the user has the grant for the manager dashboard. Get Data for Existing Cases on the Manager Dashboard For existing customers that already have old cases in the system and would like them to be included in the manager's dashboard once it is enabled for the first time, the cases reset feature can be used to push the cases from the databases to elastic search so that it reflects in the UI. API for cases reset POST {{url}}/cases/api/cases/cases/reset Sample request body with Month and year { "MaxRecordPerSegment": "2000", //Default is 1000 "NeedTotalCount": true, //Default is false. Making it true can impact performance, suggested to keep it false. "Month": "01", "Year": "2023" } Sample request body without Month and year { "MaxRecordPerSegment": "2000", //Default is 1000 "NeedTotalCount": true //Default is false. Making it true can impact performance, suggested to keep it false. } Sample response when no month and year is provided: { "TotalRecordsExpectedToExport": 1, "EntityName": "Cases", "NoOfSegment": 1, "ExportId": "ManhAdmin1__ExchangeEcom__20230810091402587" }, { "TotalRecordsExpectedToExport": 14, "EntityName": "Cases", "NoOfSegment": 1, "ExportId": "ManhAdmin1__ExchangeEcom__20230810091402595" }, { "TotalRecordsExpectedToExport": 0, "EntityName": "Cases", "NoOfSegment": 0, "ExportId": "ManhAdmin1__ExchangeEcom__20230810091402601" }, { "TotalRecordsExpectedToExport": 8, "EntityName": "Cases", "NoOfSegment": 1, "ExportId": "ManhAdmin1__ExchangeEcom__20230810091402613" } ] Note : If you provide a month and a year, cases only for that month will be indexed. If you don't provide month and year, then the last 4 months cases(current month cases till today + last 3 months cases) will be indexed. Interaction Dashboard Configuration The interaction dashboard will be visible by default if the CSR has the required grants to start using it. The below-mentioned configurations will have to be made from the backend following the below-mentioned steps. If this configuration is not done, the metrics will display NA, even though there are interactions existing in the system. API Details: [POST] {{url}}/agg-omni/api/fw-entity-aggregation/aggregationEvent/import Request Body: ManagerDashboard-InteractionMetrics-AggConfig{ "data": [ { "EntitysName": "Interaction", "EventName": "InteractionSlaStrategy", "SourceUniqueKey": "InteractionSourceKey", "AggregationEventRule": [ { "TargetEntity": "InteractionSla", "TargetAuditEntity": "InteractionSlaAudit", "RuleName": "MissedSlaRule", "TemporalLevel": "Daily", "SourceTemporalFieldName": "InteractionCreationDateInTZ", "TargetTemporalFieldName": "AggregationDate", "LeafLevel": "Interaction", "AggregationEventFilter": [ { "FilterPath": "Interaction", "FilterCondition": "MissedSLA = true" } ], "AggregationEventMeasure": [ { "SourceFieldName": "Interaction.InteractionSourceKey", "SourceAggregationType": "Counter", "TargetFieldName": "MissedSla", "TargetAggregationType": "Sum" } ], "AggregationEventGroupBy": [ { "SourceFieldName": "Interaction.InteractionType", "TargetFieldName": "InteractionType" }, { "SourceFieldName": "Interaction.Team", "TargetFieldName": "Team" } ] }, { "TargetEntity": "InteractionSla", "TargetAuditEntity": "InteractionSlaAudit", "RuleName": "TotalRequestRule", "TemporalLevel": "Daily", "SourceTemporalFieldName": "InteractionCreationDateInTZ", "TargetTemporalFieldName": "AggregationDate", "LeafLevel": "Interaction", "AggregationEventMeasure": [ { "SourceFieldName": "Interaction.InteractionSourceKey", "SourceAggregationType": "Counter", "TargetFieldName": "TotalRequest", "TargetAggregationType": "Sum" } ], "AggregationEventGroupBy": [ { "SourceFieldName": "Interaction.InteractionType", "TargetFieldName": "InteractionType" }, { "SourceFieldName": "Interaction.Team", "TargetFieldName": "Team" } ] } ] }, { "EntitysName": "Interaction", "EventName": "InteractionQueueStrategy", "SourceUniqueKey": "InteractionSourceKey", "AggregationEventRule": [ { "TargetEntity": "InteractionQueue", "TargetAuditEntity": "InteractionQueueAudit", "RuleName": "WaitedInQueueRule", "TemporalLevel": "Daily", "SourceTemporalFieldName": "InteractionCreationDateInTZ", "TargetTemporalFieldName": "AggregationDate", "LeafLevel": "Interaction", "AggregationEventMeasure": [ { "SourceFieldName": "Interaction.InteractionSourceKey", "SourceAggregationType": "Counter", "TargetFieldName": "WaitedInQueue", "TargetAggregationType": "Sum" } ], "AggregationEventGroupBy": [ { "SourceFieldName": "Interaction.InteractionType", "TargetFieldName": "InteractionType" }, { "SourceFieldName": "Interaction.Team", "TargetFieldName": "Team" } ] } ] } ] } Response: HTTP Status: 200 OK, but response is blank. Do a GET API call to verify if an event is saved successfully: API Details: [GET] {{url}}/agg-omni/api/fw-entity-aggregation/aggregationEvent Request Body: Blank Response: aggregationEvent saved in the environment Do not change anything in the request body; else the interaction dashboard may not perform as expected. Refer Aggregation Framework for more information on the aggregation framework. Troubleshooting Reset not working Check if the profiles are synced so that they will have the latest inbound/outbound message types, extension points, and service definitions. Check the request attributes MaxRecordPerSegment - Should be a number in string format NeedTotalCount - Should be a boolean value Month - Should be a number between 01 to 12 and should be a string format Year - Should be a number and should be in string format. While providing month and year,  ensure you either provide both, or don’t provide any. Interaction Dashboard Why are interaction metrics not being calculated? Verify the scheduler is running to pick delayed messages for processing delayed messages in the chatbot component Verify aggregationEvent is present with EntitysName=Interaction and EventName=InteractionSlaStrategy in component-agg-omni Verify aggregationEvent is present with EntitysName=Interaction and EventName=InteractionQueueStrategy If not present save the aggregationEvent using API: [POST] {{url}}/agg-omni/api/fw-entity-aggregation/aggregationEvent/import. Refer to Configuration for details. Verify the below-mentioned queues for any failed messages. For SLA related metrics: int-ago-chatbotMetrics For queued related metrics: cas-ago-interactionMetricsMsgType Interaction SLA report does not display data Verify that the InteractionMetricsStrategy event configuration is included in the aggregation component. Sample Aggregation EventPOST{{url}}/aggomni/api/fw-entity-aggregation/aggregationEvent { "EntitysName": "Interaction", "EventName": "InteractionMetricsStrategy", "SourceUniqueKey": "InteractionId", "AggregationEventRule": [ { "TargetEntity": "InteractionMetric", "TargetAuditEntity": "InteractionMetricAudit", "RuleName": "rule1", "TemporalLevel": "Hourly", "SourceTemporalFieldName": "BusinessDayTime", "TargetTemporalFieldName": "BusinessDayTime", "LeafLevel": "Interaction", "AggregationEventMeasure": [ { "SourceFieldName": "Interaction.InteractionId", "SourceAggregationType": "Counter", "TargetFieldName": "InteractionCount", "TargetAggregationType": "Sum" }, { "SourceFieldName": "Interaction.WithinSLA", "SourceAggregationType": "Sum", "TargetFieldName": "WithinSLA", "TargetAggregationType": "Sum" }, { "SourceFieldName": "Interaction.Missed", "SourceAggregationType": "Sum", "TargetFieldName": "Missed", "TargetAggregationType": "Sum" }, { "SourceFieldName": "Interaction.WaitedInQueue", "SourceAggregationType": "Sum", "TargetFieldName": "WaitedInQueue", "TargetAggregationType": "Sum" }, { "SourceFieldName": "Interaction.InteractionSLA", "SourceAggregationType": "AsIs", "TargetFieldName": "InteractionSLA", "TargetAggregationType": "AsIs" } ], "AggregationEventGroupBy": [ { "SourceFieldName": "Interaction.InteractionType", "TargetFieldName": "InteractionType" } ] } ] } Related Articles Contact Center Associate DashboardCustomer Profile OverviewCustomer Dashboard and Customer MetricsCase ManagementContact Center Agent Inbox InteractionsUI Resources