# Customer Profile 

**Permalink:** ce-customer-profile
**Content Length:** 13,610 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:35:01.096608

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Customer Engagement&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides ››Customer Profile Customer Profile IntroductionCustomer Profile&nbsp;Phone Number&nbsp;Country Code CaptureEdit Customer Profile Phone Country CodesTax ExemptionCustomer NotesTroubleshootingI created a new customer note category with a note category ID &lsquo;123&rsquo; and note category name &lsquo;xyz&rsquo;. While saving the customer note - I don&#39;t see the note category &lsquo;Xyz&rsquo; in the note category drop-downCan I create two customer note categories with the same note category ID?Customer profile details are missing on the OrderRelated Articles Introduction The customer profile contains all customer information, saved payment details, and preferences. This page can be used to set the preferred billing/shipping address, shipping method, contact method, and so on.&nbsp; The&nbsp;details such as phone number, email, weather based on preferred address, member since and&nbsp;other customer details that are shown on the customer dashboard are fetched from the customer profile. &nbsp; To display an address in the &quot;Available Addresses&quot; section&nbsp;of the Contact Center UI&#39;s Edit/Create Order screens, as well as in the customer header section of the order status page- the&nbsp;address must be saved&nbsp;in the customer profile under Customer Address with &quot;AddressTypeId&quot;: &quot;Both&quot; or &quot;AddressTypeId&quot;: &quot;Shipping&quot;, along with the associated customer details. If the same address is saved multiple times with different Email or PhoneNumber values, each instance will be treated as a separate address record, as the variation in contact details distinguishes them as unique addresses. Customer Profile&nbsp;Phone Number&nbsp;Country Code Capture Refer to Customer Service phone number country code capture for summary and configuration here. Edit Customer Profile Phone Country Codes For registered customers, Contact Center Agents have the ability to edit three phone number values within customer profile. When this feature is enabled and a phone number is edited, the application displays the phone number in edit mode in the UI with country code separated from phone number. The phone number is saved in e164 format in the database, the Get Customer API has logic to separate the concatenated phone number into two values: country code and phone number. 1. In Customer Profile, the logic to separate the customer&#39;s phone value into country code and phone number without prefix is as follows. If the phone code for the country from the customer&#39;s &#39;is preferred&#39; saved address matches the first digit(s) of the phone value, then the first digit(s) are separated into the phone country Id field in the response. If there is no &#39;is preferred&#39; address saved for&nbsp;the customer or the code for that country does not match the first digit(s) in the phone number, then the system uses the country on the first customer address saved. If the country phone code for this country matches the first digit(s) of the phone value, then the&nbsp;first digit(s) are separated into the phone country Id field in the response.&nbsp; If there is no match based on the above logic, the country code is null and phone number remains as-is. Agents can edit the phone number and provide a country code, if necessary. 2. In Customer Profile,&nbsp;the logic to separate the customer address phone value&nbsp;into phone country Id and phone without prefix is as follows: If the phone code for&nbsp;the country of the ship-to/bill-to/both address being edited matches the first digit(s) of the phone value, then the first&nbsp;digit(s)&nbsp;are separated into the phone country Id and phone without prefix.&nbsp; If the code for that country does not match the first digits in the phone number provided, then the system uses&nbsp;the country from the customer&#39;s &#39;is preferred&#39; saved address. If the country phone code for this country&nbsp;matches the first digit(s) of the phone value, then the first digit(s) are separated into the phone country Id field in the response. If there is no &#39;is preferred&#39; address saved on the customer or the code for that country does not match the first digit(s) in the phone number, then the system uses the country on the first customer address saved. If the country phone code for this country matches the first digit(s) of the phone value, then the&nbsp;first digit(s) are separated into the phone country Id field in the response.&nbsp; If there is no match based on the above logic, the country code is null and phone number remains as-is. Agents can edit the phone number and provide a country code, if necessary. 3. In Customer Profile, the logic to separate the customer contact phone value&nbsp;into phone country Id and phone without prefix is as follows: If the phone code for the country from the customer&#39;s &#39;is preferred&#39; saved address matches the first digit(s) of the phone value, then the first digit(s) are separated into the phone country Id field in the response. If there is no &#39;is preferred&#39; address saved on the customer or the code for that country does not match the first digit(s) in the phone number, then the system uses the country on the first customer address saved. If the country phone code for this country matches the first digit(s) of the phone value, then the&nbsp;first digit(s) are separated into the phone country Id field in the response.&nbsp; If there is no match based on the above logic, the country code is null and phone number remains as-is. Agents can edit the phone number and provide a country code, if necessary. These values are not&nbsp;part of customer import but will populate when customer creation or edit occurs within the application. Customer engagement case phone number field&#39;s parsing logic can be found here. Tax Exemption Enables users to apply and view tax exemptions in the Customer Engagement UI. Refer&nbsp;Tax Exemption&nbsp;for more information. Customer Notes Contact center agents can typically use this &lsquo;Customer notes&rsquo; functionality to add specific notes /instructions regarding a particular customer. This helps any customer center agent to have a clear picture of any notes/instructions about the customer while working with them. A note counter is available in the customer profile card to see the number of notes available for a customer. Customer-related notes can belong to different note categories. While saving a customer note, the agent can select an appropriate note from the customer category drop-down and add a corresponding note. A customer note should always have a note category. Note categories can be created from the note category configuration under the Manage customer configuration menu entry. The customer note category Id on the customer note category configuration is what the users will see on the customer notes pop-up under the note category drop-down while creating new notes as well as viewing notes that are already saved. Contact center agents should be able to view/add/edit and delete customer notes if they have the appropriate grants. The customer notes pop up will show 10 notes at a time, after which the user can use the paginator on the pop-up to view more notes Customer notes can be created for registered and unregistered customers.&nbsp; The time zone of the created and edited timestamp is always in the logged-in user&#39;s timezone. Once deleted, there is no way to retrieve customer notes.&nbsp;&nbsp; Troubleshooting I created a new customer note category with a note category ID &lsquo;123&rsquo; and note category name &lsquo;xyz&rsquo;. While saving the customer note - I don&#39;t see the note category &lsquo;Xyz&rsquo; in the note category drop-down The note category name will not be shown on the customer notes pop-up. Note category ID is mapped to the drop-down and view category in the customer notes pop up. Can I create two customer note categories with the same note category ID? No, note categories always need to be unique from each other. They cannot have the same ID. Customer profile details are missing on the Order Make sure to include the CustomerId, CustomerFirstName, and CustomerLastName to display the customer profile information. Related Articles InteractionsContact Center Manager DashboardCase ManagementCustomer Dashboard and Customer MetricsOverviewContact Center Associate DashboardUI ResourcesContact Center Agent Inbox &nbsp;