# Contact Center Agent Inbox

**Permalink:** ce-contact-center-agent-inbox
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Customer Engagement/Process & Configuration Guides/Contact Center Agent Inbox 
**Content Length:** 47,748 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:00:46.790603

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Customer Engagement››Process & Configuration Guides ››Contact Center Agent Inbox Contact Center Agent Inbox Contact Center Agent InboxHighlightsInteraction Flow in the Agent InboxConfiguration Interaction InboxResponse Template GearInteractionActive & Done TabsBack to Inbox Communication PopupVerified Customer HeaderCase Details & Case NotesCustomer Profile Customer MetricsMost Recent TransactionRecommended ItemsUnverified Customer HeaderCase Details & Case NotesVerify Customer ButtonConversation SectionHistory & Case ButtonMessage ToolsCommunication WrapUpIncoming Interaction NotificationSending & Receiving AttachmentsSMS Text, WhatsApp and ChatCross Organization Support Bouncing Interaction SupportTransferring Interaction SupportSetting Agent to Unavailable Related Articles Highlights The Contact Center Agent Inbox is a full service workspace that contact center agents can use to provide immediate attention to their customers. It streamlines communications, by supporting emails, SMS/WhatsApp messages and Live Chats, allowing the agent to navigate between customer’s interactions with ease. The inbox provides access to tools that make the job easier, such as quick order actions, the ability to send personalized product recommendations, and verify an unknown customer. The contact center agent may also research closed cases associated with the customer, wrap up an open case, or navigate smoothly to additional screens, such as the Customer Dashboard or Order Status. The Agent Inbox includes a companion Live Chat, which the retailers can embed in their websites, to allow end customers and contact center agents to communicate with one another. Interaction Flow in the Agent Inbox The Agent Inbox's purpose is to facilitate customer interactions being resolved. Interactions are created by customers, routed by Active Omni to the CSR and displayed on the inbox. The CSR can then converse with the customer. The diagram below provides the flow the system uses during this process: Configuration Access to the Agent Inbox is grant controlled. Actions within the inbox are controlled by grants and configurations pertaining to the function; for example, to perform an appeasement, the contact center agent must have the grants defined to provide appeasements from the Order Edit UI. See the UI Resources for grant information. Note: The Agent Inbox will display all open interactions assigned to the user, based on the User ID. Agents should not share the same User ID, as that may cause instability if they are working on the same interaction at once. Interaction Inbox The Interaction Inbox provides the contact center agent with their list of customers who need assistance. Note that it will only include those interactions that the agent is allowed to process. In addition, it includes the response template gear. Agents can use this gear to create their own response templates or review the base templates. Response Template Gear The Agent Inbox provides templates that agents can use to quickly insert an answer or a response to a customer, without having to type it manually. Retailers generally have a set of base templates, around subjects such as 'one moment please' or 'let me research your request', that allow the agent to respond to the customer while performing research to obtain an answer. Agents often need their own custom templates to support less commonplace scenarios or to provide a more personalized experience with customers. They can create their own response templates by choosing the gear in the Interaction Inbox and accessing the Response Template Popup.  To view the grant and access the Response Template popup, see the UI Resources for grant information. The Response Template Popup includes icons indicating the interaction type when the response can be used. When the  icon is used, that response may be used for both SMS and WhatsApp interactions. Creating Custom Responses Agents can create their own templates on the My Response Tab; the tab includes the following columns: Response Name: The response title. This will be displayed on the Agent Inbox and the user can select it to populate the message box. The agent's Response Name cannot be the same name as a base template; if the agent chooses a name that's the same as a base template, the system will display a message asking for a unique name. Response: The body of the template. This is the message that the agent wants to send to the customer. When they select the template's response name, the response body will be displayed in the message box. The response includes formatting features, such as bold and bullets. If the customer's interaction type, such as SMS, cannot display the formatting feature, the system will display it in plain text. Available In: the channels when this response is available. Values are Chat, Text (SMS/WhatsApp), Email and Quick Response. When the agent chooses Quick Response, the response will be a chip for quick access. Display Sequence: the order that the response template will be displayed in the Agent Inbox. Custom templates are displayed before base templates. After records are created, they are displayed on the tab in display sequence order. Each record includes icons to indicate the channels when the template will be displayed; if it's available as a quick response, the system includes the text 'Quick Response' (not an icon). Response templates can be edited or deleted by the agent, as needed. Base Templates Tab Agents can review the base templates and copy the contents from a base template and paste it into their custom template as a starting point. The Agent Inbox supports 50 quick response chips and will display them in display sequence order (defined from the Response Template Popup or the Custom Template configuration). Note: Managers with access to the Custom Template configuration may edit or delete agents' custom templates. Otherwise, no agent can view, edit or delete another agent's custom templates. Interaction An interaction represents a customer requiring attention from the contact center agent. When an interaction is created, the system checks to see if an existing case exists for the customer; if a case exists, it associates the interaction with the new case. If no case exists for the customer, the system will create a new case. It includes the following key features: Interaction Icon - This indicates if the interaction is chat, SMS, WhatsApp or email. Customer Name – If the customer is verified, the name will include the blue verification badge, indicating the customer is known to the organization. If the customer has not been verified, the label (Unverified) is included instead of the badge. Red Dot – To indicate that an interaction requires attention, the interaction will include a red dot when the following occur: the interaction is new and the agent has not yet selected it or the customer is the last person to communicate. Time & Date – This is the date of the most recent communication. If the interaction is greater than 24 hours, it will include date and time. Please note that email does not include the time in the interaction panel. Last Sentence in Interaction – The last sentence of the chat, WhatsApp or SMS is included in the interaction panel. If the text is too long, it may be abbreviated. Emails do not include a last sentence. Active & Done Tabs The interaction panel includes two tabs: Active and Done. When the case for an interaction is closed, it is moved to the done tab. Active Tab – The Active tab includes all the interactions that the contact center agent is assigned to manage. When the agent selects an interaction from the Active tab for a verified user, the inbox’s main section is populated with this most recent activity, along with the history of all preceding interactions for this specific customer. The Verified Customer Header section defaults to data pertinent to this customer. Done Tab - When the case associated with an interaction is closed, the interaction moves to the Done tab. The Done tab stores the last 30 closed interactions. The contact center agent can select a closed interaction to research its history and can also access any secondary screens, such as the Customer Dashboard, or open the Case Details. The agent cannot reopen the interaction or communicate with the customer using this closed interaction. Back to Inbox If the contact center agent has moved to a secondary screen, such as the Customer Dashboard or Order Status UI, the interaction will include a Back to Inbox button. When the agent selects this button, the system will close the secondary UI and display the inbox. This provides ease of navigation so that the agent can research while quickly responding to customers. Sometimes, the contact center agent may be on a secondary screen performing research when a pressing interaction comes in. The agent can select this new interaction to assist that customer. When the new interaction is selected, the system hides the Back to Inbox Button. Once the agent is ready to return to the first interaction, they simply need to select it again from the panel. The system will display the secondary screen and the Back to Inbox Button is displayed. Communication Popup When the contact center agent is on the secondary screen, they cannot communicate with the customer in the main section of the inbox as the Message Box is covered by the secondary screen. To ensure that the agent can continue to communicate with the customer while researching an order, the inbox includes a Communication Popup; this popup is available from the bottom of the Interaction Panel. Once the agent chooses the Back to Inbox Button, the popup is removed as the agent can use the main Message Box again. If the contact center agent is on secondary pages for multiple customers/interactions, the Communication Popup is valid for interaction selected from the panel. Verified Customer Header A verified customer is one who was verified prior to their interaction being created. For example, if a customer reaches out via Chat, the retailer's website confirms their identity and passes along information to Manhattan Active® Omni that matches the customer record for the person. When the contact center agent selects an Interaction for a verified customer, the Agent Inbox will provide information about them to assist the contact center agent. This includes basics such as the customer's name and access to the profile, along with more specialized information, such as personalized recommendations for that customer. This section provides information about each of the sections of the customer header for a verified customer. Case Details & Case Notes Agents can access case details by selecting the case icon in the blue banner. If the interaction is associated with an existing open case, the case icon includes a red exclamation point to alert the agent that this is an existing case and relevant information may be available in the Case Details. Case Details include case notes, which the agent can use to provide content that is helpful or relevant to the customer or case. Information that the agent provides on Case Details & Case Notes from the blue banner is available via Wrapup and when accessed from the Case UI. Customer Profile The Customer Profile section provides basic information about the customer, as well as access to additional details. Customer Name & Access to the Customer Dashboard – The contact center agent can click on either the customer name or the chevron next to their name to access the Customer Dashboard UI. The system will open the Customer Dashboard within the inbox, allowing the agent to perform research while still having access to the interaction panel. Access to Customer Notes – The contact center agent can select the Customer Notes icon to access notes and provide new ones. Access and editing permission is governed by the existing grants for customer notes. Access to Customer Profile – The contact center agent can select the raindrop menu to access the customer’s profile record, which they can review or edit. Access and editing permission is governed by the existing grants for customer profile. Loyalty, Time and Status – This data provides insight into the customer’s relationship with the retailer, along with their current time. Customer Metrics The Customer Service Agent Inbox displays the same customer metrics that are available on the Customer Dashboard, with the exception of the Average CSAT Score. The Average CSAT Score is only available on the Agent Inbox. These provide the agent with a bird's eye view of the customer's relationship with the retailer, which is information required to tailor a response to the individual customer. Average CSAT Score The Average CSAT Score identifies the satisfaction score that the customer has provided regarding their experiences with customer service. The system obtains this score when the customer provides a rating at the end of a Live Chat session. Retailers can also interface records if they want to provide CSAT scores that they have obtained for other channels, such as email, WhatsApp or SMS. For information about metrics besides the Average CSAT Score, please see Customer Dashboard and Customer Metrics. Most Recent Transaction Statistically, the highest percentage of contact center agent interactions involve the last transaction. To help the agent quickly assist customers, the Verified Customer Header includes their most recent order. This section includes tools for research and order modification. Quick Actions – Based on the status of the order, this section includes quick actions applicable to the order. The Quick Actions include: Appease, Cancel, Return. The contact center agent can use these actions to immediately address these common requests, without leaving the inbox itself. Please note that all actions utilize the grants defined for use on other screens; for example, if the agent can edit an order on the Order Edit screen, they can edit an order on the inbox. Order Created Date & Access to the Order Status UI – The contact center agent can select the Order Created Date to access the Order Status UI. The system will display the Order Status UI inside the inbox, allowing the agent to research for the customer while also attending to incoming interactions or chatting with the customer. From the Order Status UI, the agent may navigate to other UIs, like the Order Edit UI; these UIs are also displayed within the Inbox. Please note that if the agent makes changes on the Order Edit UI, they should not leave the screen until they have saved all changes by selecting the Confirm Changes button. Images of items on the order – To help the contact center agent identify the order, this section includes images of the items on the first three order lines. If an order includes more than three items, the additional items are noted with a +; for example, if the order includes five items, the system will display three images +2. Order Status – The contact center agent can use this to determine if any additional actions can be taken and relay the status to the customer. Recommended Items To provide the contact center agent cross-selling opportunity, the system provides the ability to send customer’s personalized recommendations. This section provides three recommended items; by default, recommendations are based on the customer. The agent can select an image; the system will default the associated URL in the message box and the agent can send it to the customer. For more information about recommendations in Customer Service, please see Product Recommendations. Unverified Customer Header An unverified customer is one who is reached out to customer service and has not been verified by the retailer. For example, if a customer has accessed Live Chat from the retailer's website before logging onto the site, it is considered unverified. When an unverified customer contacts customer service, the system creates interaction and displays it in the Interaction Panel. The contact center agent can communicate with an unverified customer to provide basic information, such as the return policy and an upcoming sale. If the customer requires information about a specific order or their account, the agent can use the OTP (one time password) feature to verify them. For an unverified customer, the header will display the name provided by the customer and the Verify Customer Button. It will also include the word (Unverified) to remind the contact center agent of the customer's status. Case Details & Case Notes Agents can access case details by selecting the case icon in the blue banner. Case details include case notes, which the agent can use to provide content that is helpful or relevant to the customer or case. Information that the agent provides on Case Details & Case Notes from the blue banner is available via Wrapup and when accessed from the Case UI. Verify Customer Button The contact center agent can verify an unverified customer using the Verify Customer Button. When the agent selects the button, the system displays the Verify Popup. If the system can identify the customer from the first name, last name and email address or phone number with the country code that they provided, the popup will display information from the customer's record, including name, email and phone number. If the customer has multiple records with the same email/phone number, the system will retrieve the first record and associate it with the customer. If the system cannot identify the customer from the first name, last name and email address or phone number with the country code that they provided, the popup includes columns for email and phone number. The agent can ask the customer to identify the email or phone number that is linked to their customer record. The agent can enter that on the popup; the system will retrieve the associated customer record and display it for the agent. Note: If a customer profile contains a phone number without a country code, on verify customer action, system will search for the customer records using the first name, last name, and phone number with the country code. system will not retrieve any records but the popup will present which includes email and phone number. Once the customer is identified, the agent can select the Send via Email or Send via SMS option to send a 6 digit One-Time passcode (Send OTP). Note that the passcode cannot be sent to WhatsApp. The system will send the OTP to the phone number or email id on the customer's record. The customer will provide that to the agent, and they will enter it on the Verify Popup: If the OTP is matched, the inbox will display the customer's information in the header, including their most recent purchase. If the OTP does not match, the contact center agent can enter it again. They can also resend the OTP and the system will send a new one to the customer. The OTP will be valid for 10 minutes; whenever the agent resends a new OTP, the previous OTP will become invalid. Please note that if the unverified customer also had another interaction in the Active tab, the system will not combine them. This is unlikely, but could happen if the customer is attempting multiple methods to reach customer service. To use the OTP via SMS option (Send Via SMS) in the agent inbox, the "Enable SMS OTP Verification" configuration in customer interaction must be enabled, as this configuration is disabled by default. If the retailer is already able to send transactional emails to customers, no additional configuration is required to send OTPs via email, and it should work directly but validate the email OTP template once. However, to send OTPs via SMS, these configurations must be followed. Note: The phone number on the customer record must include the country code prefix or the OTP cannot be sent. for example, the country code for the United States is '1'. Conversation Section When the contact center agent selects an interaction from the Interaction Panel, the inbox will display its contents in the Conversation Section. If the customer’s contact is an email, the inbox provides the email and the ability to respond. If the customer’s contact is an SMS, WhatsApp or live chat, the agent will be able to chat with the customer and see a transcript of the conversation. Below are the features of the Conversation Section: History & Case Button History – If the customer has reached out to the retailer in the past (as a verified user), the system will display all the history of those interactions in reverse chronological order, meaning the most recent interaction is displayed at the bottom of the Conversation Section. The contact center agent can scroll through the history to research the customer’s prior experiences, allowing them to make informed decisions when assisting the customer. The history section also includes all the emails/conversations logged for the current interaction. Note: The history only displays case information where an interaction, such as chat, WhatsApp, SMS, email, generated the case. Information created from the Case UI is not displayed in the Agent Inbox, although it can be reviewed from the Case Detail UI. For registered customers, if there is no existing open case, the system will create a brand-new closed case and interaction at the end of the chatbot conversation. This will allow the agent's inbox timeline to display the past chatbot transcripts, sentiment analysis, and a summary, even if the customer did not connect with a live agent. Gen AI will determine whether the conversation is valid for creating a closed case and will automatically update the case with relevant category and subcategory from Case Category and Sub-Category list. If the registered customer already has an open case, the system will create a closed interaction tied to the existing case, without creating a new closed case. If the open case already has a category and subcategory, or if they are empty, the system will not override them, but it will update the summary with the sentiment derived from the chatbot interaction. Cases that are created solely based on a chatbot conversation (not live chat) will have the origin labeled as "chatbot" in the case. Note: If the retailer does not have a customer engagement feature enabled and only has the Maven chatbot, then when a customer finishes a conversation with the chatbot and closes it, the chatbot will not create a closed case and interaction, even though it was a valid chat. Case Button – all closed interactions are associated with a case. The agent can select the Case Button to review the case; they can also edit the case (must have associated grant). Message Tools Reply Via Drop-down – This allows the contact center agent to change how they communicate with the customer. The expected use is that the agent needs to send a follow-up email to the customer in response to their live chat conversation. The agent may send the email and then choose to reply again via Chat, assuming that the chat conversation has not expired. Quick Responses – These are templates that the contact center agent can select to quickly provide the customer with a predefined response, without typing it out. This provides the agent time to research the customer’s inquiry. The agent can also edit the responses before sending it. Quick Responses are available for chat, WhatsApp and SMS only. Search Template – This tool allows the contact center agent to access all templates that are valid for the interaction channel. The agent can search and select a template and the system will display its contents in the email/message box. Like the Quick Responses, a template minimizes agent typing as she can just send the predefined message or modify it before sending. Communication The contact center agent will communicate with the customer using either the Message Box or the Email tools. Message Box – For Text Message/Live Chat, the inbox displays a message box where the agent can chat with the customer and send recommendations. The message box is expanded to full view mode while the agent is within the Agent Inbox. If the agent accesses a secondary page within the inbox, such as the Order Page, the agent can communicate with a smaller message box on the bottom left of the screen. In full view mode, the message box includes HTML tools, such as bold and italics, that the agent can use while communicating with the customer. Note that all SMS messages are sent in plain text mode. Email – For Emails, the inbox provides the features required to send an email, including To and CC fields, Subject Field, formatting tools, attachment function and a message space to create the email to send to the customer. Send Button – The agent will use this button to send the correspondence to the customer. Shortcut Keys for Send Button Agents can press the Send Button to send a message to the customer, or they can use shortcut keys. The shortcuts may be used for the following interaction types: chat, sms. Windows Shortcut: press CTRL + Enter Apple Shortcut: press Command + Enter WrapUp Wrap Up is similar to cases, interaction is closed when the Wrap Up is submitted with no follow-up required. The ‘Follow Up Required’ checkbox in Interaction Wrap-Up is unchecked by default in the Agent Inbox. The Wrap Up popup for interactions includes all the columns available when it's accessed from a case. Once the interaction is closed, it is moved to the Done tab in the Interaction Panel. If Gen AI was able to determine the case category and sub-category, it will be pre-populated on the Wrap Up popup, and the agent can choose to change it if required. Incoming Interaction Notification If the agent has another browser open and a new interaction comes in, they won't be aware that it requires their attention. The system provides a light bell sign when a new interaction arrives and the agent is not in the Inbox. Note: The agent should have the Agent Inbox or another cefacade UI open to receive the bell notification and then address the new interaction. The bell is provided for the following interaction types: chat, sms, email. Sending & Receiving Attachments Customers and agents may exchange attachments using any of the following communication methods: Email, SMS text, WhatsApp and Chat. Email attachments functionality from the inbox works like it does from the Case Details UI. Please see the Email Page for information regarding sending attachments via email. SMS Text, WhatsApp and Chat SMS and Chat support the following file types: .png, .gif, .jpg, .txt, .pdf.  A maximum of five attachments can be sent at one time and the maximum size supported is 5 mb. WhatsApp provides support for the following file types that are also supported in Agent Inbox: .png, .jpg, .pdf. A maximum of one attachment at a time is supported by WhatsApp. The maximum size supported is 5 mb. When the customer sends attachments, they appear as thumbnails in the customer timeline within the Agent Inbox. The agent may select a thumbnail and the system will display it on a new browser tab. The agent may send attachments to the customer as well, using the Attach Button. The attachments will appear under the Message Box until the agent selects the Send Button. All sent attachments also appear in the customer timeline. After the case is closed, the attachments can be viewed from the Case Details UI or the Done Tab. Once the case is closed, the attachments must be downloaded to view. Cross Organization Support Organizations that service multiple retail brands may choose to share agents across those brands. For example, if an organization has the retail brands Sophia's and Jane's, the same agents can service the customers for both brands. The Agent Inbox will display all interactions assigned to an agent across all organizations in the Interaction Panel, so that the agent doesn't need to change the organization and potentially miss an interaction that requires attention. The interaction in the panel can include the organization name under the customer's name, so that the agent can immediately cater to responses that are tailored for an organization's client base. All interactions are customer/organization specific. This means that if Ellen Smith sends a chat using the Sophia's DSS LiveChat, all information displayed in the Agent Inbox will be for Ellen Smith's business with Sophia's. The Order and Metrics displayed in the inbox will be for Ellen's transactions for Sophias; all interaction history will be for Ellen's contact regarding Sophia's business. If templates and quick responses are defined per organization, the system will display only those available for Sophia's; if the organization shares the same profile purpose, those can be shared. Bouncing Interaction Support If an agent cannot assist a customer in a timely fashion, the system will bounce the interaction from them and route it to a different agent. Each interaction type has an SOP defined by the retailer that determines when it should be selected by the customer. Once the interaction is routed to an agent, the system times when they can pick it up. When 15 seconds remain until the SOP is reached, the inbox will display a timer and transfer icon indicating to the agent that they need to respond. The timer updates every 5 seconds to remind the agent that it will be bounced soon. Once the SOP is reached, the agent can no longer respond to the customer; the interaction is set to inactive in their inbox and the interaction will include a message that the interaction is transferred. When the interaction is transferred to a different agent, it includes an icon indicating that it was a transfer and requires immediate attention. The message history of the interaction will include a note that it was bounced. Note: The system will not bounce an interaction once the agent selects the interaction from the interaction panel. Bouncing caused by the Expected Agent Initial Response Time or mid-conversation bouncing is not executed by the system when the case or interaction is awaiting a transfer request. The transfer request takes priority over bouncing. Transferring Interaction Support Agents can transfer an interaction and the case to another team for: Interaction transfers for escalation: The customer asks the agent to transfer the conversation to an escalation team of the agent's manager Interaction transfers for specialized assistance: The agent has to transfer the interaction to a specialized team of agents to further resolve the customer query Interaction transfers for load balancing and quick breaks: The agent has to transfer the interaction to another agent of the different team for load balancing or before taking a quick break. Note: This feature is controlled by the grant to the Contact Center Agent Inbox UI and a specific grant to the transfer button which are not provided for the user by default. Refer to Customer Service Agent Inbox for more information. Note: An agent can select any interaction irrespective of whether it's a new interaction or whether the agent has already worked on the interaction, and it has some response. There is no way to restrict the transfer feature using grants or otherwise. An interaction cannot be transferred to another organization using interaction transfer from the agent inbox. To transfer an interaction, the agent has to select an interaction from the Active tab and click on the Transfer Button. The system will open a window with a type ahead search box to search for the team to which the agent wants to transfer the interaction. The agent can select the specific team's radio button and click on the Transfer button provided in the search window to initiate the transfer. Note: The team drop-down displays a maximum of 50 teams. If there are more teams, the agent can start typing ahead in the team drop-down to get more refined results. The teams displayed are from the same organization as the interaction belongs to. For each team displayed in the interaction transfer popup, the system displays the availability status of each team depending on the interaction type of the interaction selected by the agent to transfer. If at least one agent is available and has the capacity to handle the interaction type selected for transfer - the team will be marked with a green dot indicating availability. If no agent is available to handle the interaction type selected for transfer, the team will be marked with a red dot indicating availability. The team availability status is calculated upfront before the transfer process is initiated by the system and might have changed by the time the transfer is actually attempted by the system. The sytem will initiate the transfer and the transfer will be successful if at least one agent is: Available (agent availability status) in the selected team for the interaction type being transferred AND has the capacity to handle the interaction type being transferred AND the organization doesn't have out of Hours of Operation configured for the current time period The system will display a popup to the agent confirming the successful transfer and the team and the agent's first name and last name (if available) or the 'userid' of the agent will be displayed. The agent can click on the OK button to continue working on other interactions in the inbox while the interaction that was transferred will be automatically removed from the agent's inbox. The agent to which the interaction is transferred will see the interaction in the agent inbox interaction panel - active tab with a red dot. The transfer request will NOT be successful if any one of the two points mentioned above is not satisfied at the time of transferring the interaction to the selected team; instead, the interaction will be placed in pending / awaiting transfer status and the transfer will be completed as soon as an agent becomes available for the specific team for with the interaction transfer was requested. The system will display a popup to the agent informing them that the interaction is pending / awaiting transfer. While the interaction is awaiting transfer, the agent can continue the conversation and perform other actions like wrap-up etc. If the interaction is wrapped-up or if the conversation becomes inactive due to customer inactivity,  the transfer request will be abandoned. Agent cannot cancel a transfer request in pending / awaiting transfer status; there is no time limit to complete the transfer request. Bouncing caused by the Expected Agent Initial Response Time or mid-conversation bouncing is not executed by the system when the case or interaction is awaiting a transfer request. The transfer request takes priority over bouncing. Setting Agent to Unavailable If the agent signs out of the system without setting themselves to "Unavailable" first, the system will automatically set them to unavailable. No more interactions will be routed to the agent. The agent will need to set themselves to "Available" when they log back into the system. Related Articles UI ResourcesInteractionsContact Center Manager DashboardOverviewCase ManagementCustomer Profile Customer Dashboard and Customer MetricsContact Center Associate Dashboard