# Interactions

**Permalink:** ce-interactions
**Content Length:** 4,845 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:35:04.876874

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Customer Engagement&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides ››Interactions Interactions Overview&nbsp;Case BehaviorImporting from Third PartyRelated Articles Overview&nbsp; Customer Engagement provides a spectrum of communication and interaction channels that the retailer can have with the customer. This platform combines communication across all channels to provide a consistent brand experience. For example, if a customer has posted a complaint on social media and then calls the contact center agent. The contact center agent will directly be able to greet the customer by their&nbsp;name as the Customer Engagement software has already made the contact center agent aware of the customer's name and his problems. This module enables the customer to choose how and when they want to interact with the retailer/ brand. Hence, this allows the retailers to deliver&nbsp;consistently and regularly regardless of the communication channel.&nbsp; These&nbsp;different communication channels through which the contact center agent can connect with the customer are known as "Interaction Types". These interactions can be logged and viewed in the application as part of a case.&nbsp; Customer Engagement currently supports the following types of interactions: Email&nbsp; Social&nbsp;(Facebook and X integration) Configuring listeners is required to read from a Facebook or X account. To configure please click here. Text Messaging&nbsp;(includes SMS and WhatsApp) Phone via integrated extension&nbsp;(Phone is not supported natively in Manhattan&nbsp;Active® Omni, but phone interactions&nbsp;can be imported and viewed in Customer Engagement. Refer to CTI integration flow&nbsp;for details.) Chat Interaction Wrap up&nbsp;to close the interaction and the associated case.&nbsp; Case Behavior When a new interaction comes in from one of the supported channels, a new case will be created and the interaction details will be visible on that case. If an open case for that customer already exists, then the new interaction will be added to the existing open case and will be visible there. Importing from Third Party If a third-party system is being used to create interaction, then while attempting to import the interaction,&nbsp;it is important to note the following: The system will always either generate a new open case or add the interaction to an existing open case. The caseId cannot be specified in the interaction/save API. The system will either generate a new one, or it will add the interaction to an existing open case. If multiple open cases exist for a customer, attempting to import interactions will result in those interactions being added to the newest open case. Related Articles Contact Center Agent Inbox