# Overview

**Permalink:** ce-overview
**Content Length:** 8,467 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:34:59.603513

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Customer Engagement&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides ››Overview Overview OverviewOrganization Color CodeConfiguration&nbsp;User Interface ThemingConfigurationRelated Articles Customer Engagement is a platform that enhances the ability of the retailer to&nbsp;understand customers, engage with customers, and enrich their journey. It is a complete one-stop-shop solution for delivering relevant information to the contact center agent as well as storing and engaging in useful interactions with the customers, enriching their shopping experience. Customer Engagement can be broken down into the following modules: Contact Center Agent&nbsp;Dashboard Customer Dashboard Contact Center Manager Dashboard Case Management Contact Center Agent Inbox & Interactions Organization Color Code Retailers that support multiple organizations in the contact center may associate a color hex code with an organization. When an organization has a defined hex code, the system will display the organization's name in an oval and the background will be the color associated with the hex code. For example, if hex code #228B22 is defined for the organization 'Ace Clothing',&nbsp;UIs such as the Manager Dashboard will include a forest green background behind 'Ace Clothing' in the organization dropdown. This allows agents to quickly assess which organization they are working in. The color coding is helpful for agents who support multiple organizations: they may be busy and inadvertently associate cases or orders with the wrong organization. The color code provides a visual indicator of the organization they are currently working in.&nbsp; If defined, the color code will appear on the following cefacade UIs:&nbsp; Manager Dashboard Case List Item Search Customer Dashboard Banned Customer Dashboard Order Edit and Order Status (when accessed from a cefacade UI, like when creating an order from Item Search) Create Return, Return Status and XO status (when accessed from a cefacade UI, like when creating a return from the Customer Dasboard) Social Listening Note: organizations will not appear on the Agent Inbox. The Agent Inbox is organization agnostic. Any interaction that appears in the Agent Inbox is already linked to an organization.&nbsp; &nbsp; Configuration&nbsp; The ability to define a color code to an organization is grant protected. The user must have the following grant:&nbsp;customerengagementfacade::organizationcolor::edit&nbsp; 1. Access the following MUP UI configuration: Customer Engagement Organization Configuration.&nbsp; 2. Provide the organization ID value.&nbsp; 3. Provide the hex code for the color that you want to associate with the organization. Make sure that the hex code starts with an # symbol.&nbsp; 4. Save the changes. If you have a current cefacade UI open, refresh to see the organization in its color code.&nbsp; Note: You may use the same hex code for multiple organizations. Please choose a darker color as the organization font is white: a high contrast will be helpful to agents.&nbsp; User Interface Theming Contact center users&nbsp;can now select a new “Cobalt” theme for their agents to use within the contact center and customer engagement screens within the Manhattan Active® Omni Customer Service solution. A new Cobalt Blue theme is available for the Contact Center and Customer Engagement screens. This theme includes a simplified color palette along with improvements to navigation, information hierarchy, and typography. Configuration To enable Cobalt Blue, perform the following steps: Navigate to&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Proactive&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Proactive Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Functional Config&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Review Behavior Changes.&nbsp; For the record with&nbsp;Change Name&nbsp;as 'Cobalt Theme,' set&nbsp;Enabled&nbsp;to 'true'. If not enabled by the&nbsp;Must Enable By Date&nbsp;listed in this UI, the theme will automatically be enabled on this date.&nbsp;The Cobalt theme has a default color scheme. Before enabling the Cobalt Blue theme, validate all extension points to ensure they align with the new color pallet. This theme has a default color scheme - colors, fonts and background images cannot be customized. Note:&nbsp;Projects starting afresh after September 2022 will only have one theme - COBALT theme for customer engagement and Contact center. Idle session timeout for Customer Engagement facade is 10 hours and is not configurable. Related Articles Customer Profile Case ManagementContact Center Agent Inbox Contact Center Manager DashboardCustomer Dashboard and Customer MetricsInteractionsUI ResourcesContact Center Associate Dashboard&nbsp; &nbsp;