# Channels

**Permalink:** channels
**Content Length:** 8,269 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:42.335976

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Configurations&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Location Configurations ››Channels Channels &nbsp; ChannelsCreating a Business ChannelEditing a Business ChannelDeleting a Business ChannelField DescriptionAction Buttons Channels are used to define allocations of inventory for sectors of the business other than a store. For example, e-commerce orders, and wholesale business, etc. This screen enables the user to define selling channels to which allocations are made in addition to stores. This configuration screen is used to create, edit and view business channels. The Channels need to be created prior to creating any virtual locations. Users can view the breakup of inventory (inventory segments) based on the channels. Admin and Manager users can access this screen. &nbsp; &nbsp; Filters: Channel Id Creating a Business Channel To create a new channel: &nbsp; Select Menu &gt; Configurations &gt; Location&nbsp;Configurations&nbsp;&gt; Channels Enter the filter criteria and click Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Click Create to view the Channel window. Enter the Channel Id and Description. Click Save. &nbsp; Note: All mandatory fields are denoted with *. &nbsp; Editing a Business Channel To edit a channel: Swipe-out List Select Menu &gt; Configurations &gt; Location&nbsp;Configurations&nbsp;&gt; Channels. Enter the filter criteria and click Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Select the required channel record. Swipe-out the menu on the required record card and select Edit. In the Channel window, modify the required fields. Click Save to save the modified channel details. Edit View Select the required channel record card. The action buttons are displayed in the footer section. Click Edit to view the Channel window, modify the required fields. Click Save to save the modified channel details. Deleting a Business Channel To delete a channel: Swipe-out List Select Menu &gt; Configurations &gt; Location&nbsp;Configurations&nbsp;&gt; Channel. Enter the filter criteria and click Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Swipe-out menu on the required record card and select Delete. A warning message pop-up prompts as, &#39;You are about to delete a channel which is tied to a related entity, either a virtual location or Allocation Policy Phase Hold Back&#39;. Click Yes to delete the channel. Delete Select the required record card. The footer section with action buttons is displayed. Select Delete. A warning message pop-up prompts as, &#39;You are about to delete a channel which is tied to a related entity, either a virtual location or Allocation Policy Phase Hold Back&#39;. Click Yes to delete the channel. Note: The user cannot delete Ecom and Retail channel entities because these are seed data channels. Field Description The following are the field descriptions of the attributes available on the screen. &nbsp; Field Description Channel Id The business channel identifier.&nbsp;There are 2 channels defined below: Retail &rarr; Retail business channel. Ecom &rarr; Ecom business channel. Description The description of the business channel. &nbsp; Action Buttons Following are the action buttons available on the screen. &nbsp; Select All Rows Selects all the rows of records on the screen. Export Exports the list of channel attributes, the file will be downloaded onto your system. View Export for more information. Create Opens the Channel window. Deselect Clears the selected records. Edit Opens the Channel window displaying details of the selected record. Details Opens the Channel window displaying details of the selected record. Delete Deletes the selected record.