# Change Shipping Address

**Permalink:** change-shipping-address
**Content Length:** 17,220 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:33:44.662641

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Digital Self-Service ››Change Shipping Address Change Shipping Address OverviewChange Shipping Address FlowEstimated Delivery DisplayDetermining Item EligibilityCapture PaymentUsing the Browser Back ButtonCustomizing for your BrandConfigurationFeature ScopeImplementation FlavorHow to unify the Address Id generation algorithm of customer profile and order creationHow to Test Overview In Digital Self-Service, customers can update the shipping address of items from orders placed in e-commerce and call center. Shipping address changes are supported for order lines with a delivery method of ship to home,&nbsp;until the items are in packed status. Customers can initiate the self-service shipping address update in a few different ways. One is via the link provided in a transactional email, such as the order confirmation email. Another is if the retailer provides a link to update the shipping address in the customer's My Account page in e-commerce, or if the retailer offers a link, even for customers who are not logged in. Customers can select to update one or multiple releases at a time. After selecting the releases, customers enter the new address. Shipping restrictions and Address Verification Service (AVS) can optionally be enabled during this process. Once the address is entered, the customer reviews the changes and estimated delivery date and can confirm the update. Once confirmed, a confirmation email is sent to the customer. Change Shipping Address Flow The Change Shipping Address flow is composed of four pages: an items selection page, an address entry page, a review page, and a confirmation page. The items selection page lists items in two groups, items eligible for a shipping address change, and items ineligible for a shipping address change. Items are deemed eligible for a shipping address change based on the order modification rules. Refer here to understand the configuration and the integration between Order and Fulfillment application. For example, a ship to home item that has already been shipped is ineligible for a shipping address change, while an item that is in allocated status is eligible for a shipping address change. The order lines are further broken down within each eligible or ineligible group by shipping address, and then by release. Eligible items that belong to the same release, or items belonging to the same address that are not yet released, are always updated together. Partial release updates are not supported. Once the items are selected, the customer can enter the updated address. Retailers can configure specific countries at the organizational level to restrict customers from shipping orders to those destinations; more information about this can be found here. Several&nbsp;services are available on this page, including address validation and shipping restriction evaluation.&nbsp; Google Autocomplete can optionally be enabled&nbsp;if a Google account is registered for this service. The autocomplete functionality searches based on inputs in the Address Line 1 field. Other fields do not trigger the autocomplete search capabilities. Once an address is autopopulated via autocomplete, the user can still manually update address fields if required. Address validation (through&nbsp;Address Verification Service) is performed&nbsp;when the user enters an address and clicks "Continue." If the AVS service is unavailable, the user can&nbsp;proceed. DSS uses the third-party AVS configured for the contact center. If a Call Center AVS is not configured, DSS&nbsp;notifies the customer that the address was not verified and gives the customer the choice to proceed with the entered address. Shipping restrictions can optionally be enabled. If enabled, shipping restrictions are evaluated after any address validation. A call is made to the shipping and handling component to evaluate any shipping restrictions that are configured. If any shipping restrictions exist for the new address, an error message is displayed, and the user cannot proceed with the update. On the review page, the customer can view their selected items,&nbsp;updated address, and estimated delivery date. They can go back to edit the address or confirm to change the shipping address of the selected items.&nbsp; After the user confirms the address change, the confirmation UI displays a summary of the updated items. It is possible that the address change eligibility of the&nbsp;items may change during the process. In these instances, the user will be notified, and the address update will not be processed. The confirmation will display a real-time response to the shipping address change request. If the address change request was fully successful or unsuccessful, the UI will display the correct response with the updated address. If the request or part of the request is in progress, the UI will state that the address change has been requested, and an email will be sent to the customer with further details.&nbsp; Estimated Delivery Display On the review and confirmation pages,&nbsp;Digital Self-Service makes a call to retrieve an&nbsp;estimated delivery date based on the new address. This estimated delivery date feature uses the promising cart API to get a general network estimated delivery date using the destination postal code and shipping method. Details on this API functionality can be found here. If multiple fulfillment groups with varying shipping methods are updated at the same time with a new shipping address, the Digital Self-Service displays the latest estimated delivery date. Determining Item Eligibility Items are deemed eligible or ineligible for shipping address changes based on multiple factors. A few factors are listed below. The full list can be found here. Order line status - Order line shipping address changes are restricted based on the status defined in Order Configuration. Order line delivery method - Only order lines with the delivery method of 'Ship To Address' are eligible for address changes. Capture Payment A change in the shipping address can result in a change in the order total due to tax re-calculation. If the address change leads to an increase in tax, the balance due will be displayed on the Change Shipping Address preview page. Users can choose to pay the balance due using the configured payment methods. If no alternative payment methods are configured, the default payment method will be a credit card. If there is a balance due and the customer chooses to proceed with the address change, they will be redirected to the hosted checkout page to complete the payment. Capturing payment for the balance due amount is disabled by default, but can be enabled by selecting the "Enable Pay by Link for Self-Service Features" checkbox in the Digital Self-Service Note:&nbsp;Instructions for enabling different payment methods on the Return and Exchanges Preview page and configuring a payment gateway for each of them can be found in the Multiple Payment Gateways Configuration section. If the retailer does not want to collect the additional tax amount from the customer, it is possible to write off any increase in taxes&nbsp;by configuring a write-off threshold&nbsp;- 'Auto Write-Off Additional Taxes Threshold Amount' in the Order Configuration under the 'General'&nbsp;tab. Using the Browser Back Button In addition to the in-app back&nbsp;button, the browser 'Back' button can&nbsp;be used to navigate backwards to edit shipping address change&nbsp;selections.&nbsp;If the browser 'Back' button is used on the first screen, then the user is navigated back to the prior webpage (or, if a new browser tab was opened, then no update occurs). If the user clicks 'Back' on the second screen in the flow,&nbsp;the user sees prior selections and can edit selected items and&nbsp;proceed again. If the user clicks 'Back' on the third (review) screen in the flow, then the user is returned to the address entry&nbsp;page.&nbsp;If the user clicks 'Back' on the fourth (confirmation) screen in the flow, then the user is returned to the review page. Changes are not reverted when clicking 'Back' from the final page, and any resubmission of the changes may result in an error message to the customer.&nbsp; The browser 'Reload' or 'Refresh' button behaves the same way as&nbsp;the 'Back' button.&nbsp; Customizing for your Brand Digital Self-Service can be customized to reflect the look and feel of an individual brand. See the&nbsp;UI Theming & Customization Guide&nbsp;for information on how the logo, fonts, colors, and labels can be customized. Configuration The following configuration is required. See below for more details. Configure any shipping restrictions required to be evaluated for shipping address entry. These shipping restrictions are the same restrictions that the contact center uses. Separate configurations&nbsp;for the Digital Self Service flow are&nbsp;not supported. Details on how to configure shipping restrictions can be found here. Enable Address Verification Service (AVS). This parameter is shared with the Ship It Instead process. If enabled, AVS is utilized for both flows. Google Autocomplete Order configuration to enable updates to the order line shipping address until Released status or greater Enable change shipping address confirmation emails if required. See the&nbsp;Transactional Emails&nbsp;guide. The following configurations are required to calculate order total change due to address change and capture the payment for the applicable balance:&nbsp; &nbsp; Product Configuration Link Digital Self-Service Enable Pay by Link for Self Service Features&nbsp; Configure self-service payment gateway Id&nbsp; Enable -&nbsp;Permit SelfService Sales - for the Payment Type in Payment Capture Config Available here &nbsp; Feature Scope The following is not supported: Changing shipping address of: POS lines Return lines Cancelled lines Order lines with no address Order lines in open status Order lines with delivery method of 'Pick Up At Store' or 'Ship To Store' Partial fulfillment group updates and partial release updates. If two lines belong to the same release or group, the address of the entire release or group is updated. Items cannot be broken out of a release to change the address. Partial quantity updates. All quantities of a line are updated together. Using a saved shipping address for a registered customer Saving a shipping address to a registered customer's profile Changing billing addresses on the order Specific shipping restriction error messages. If any shipping restriction is found for the new address, a general error message is displayed. Individual shipping restriction information would need to be obtained (if available) by the customer calling the contact center. Implementation Flavor How to unify the Address Id generation algorithm of customer profile and order creation Currently, when an address is saved from the customer profile, the address ID is generated by the customer component. However, when customer service representatives save the address during order creation, the UI facade uses its own logic to generate the address ID and then saves it to the customer entity. To unify the address Id generation, implement the command router outlined below and replace the base addressId with a custom-generated addressId, which can be implemented in the same way as the customer component logic. # Command router entry to save modified Customer Data,Request Type : POST manh.command-router.commands.SaveCustomer.commandPath=/customer/customer/savemanh.command-router.commands.SaveCustomer.targetComponent=com-manh-cp-customermanh.command-router.commands.SaveCustomer.targetEndpoint=/api/customer/customer/save Note:&nbsp;Addresses that are already saved cannot be altered. How to Test Create an order. Navigate to the&nbsp;change shipping address URL directly by forming the URL in your browser, or launch the page from an email such as 'Order Confirmation.' Select the desired fulfillment group and proceed. Enter an address and proceed. Confirm changes in the DSS UI. Navigate to the order list UI and view order details to see changes reflected.