# Change Supplier

**Permalink:** change-supplier
**Content Length:** 16,929 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:01.066670

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process &amp; Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Build ››Change Supplier Change Supplier (Primary Source and Subgroup)&nbsp; Previous&nbsp;I&nbsp;Next OverviewChange SupplierTemporary Change SupplierProcess FlowConfigurationHow to set up Primary source and SubGroup?How to set up Override source and Override End Date?ServicesTroubleshootingRelated Articles Overview Change Supplier Changing suppliers is a strategic decision for businesses. The ability to do this efficiently, especially when subgroups are involved, is crucial for maintaining cost control, efficiency, quality, and customer satisfaction. It also helps in responding to demand spikes and managing operational constraints. This feature simplifies sourcing relationships and facilitates smooth supplier changes. Why&nbsp;change a supplier? To achieve better cost control, efficiency, quality, and customer satisfaction, urgent demand spikes, or operational constraints. Common Use cases: &nbsp; &nbsp;Supplier change due to Out of Stock &nbsp; &nbsp;Supplier changes due to price increases &nbsp; &nbsp;Supplier change to meet the service goals &nbsp; Temporary Change Supplier A Temporary Supplier Change is a scenario where a business needs to switch from its primary supplier to a secondary or alternative supplier for a specific, limited period. This situation typically arises when the primary supplier is unable to fulfill an order, is experiencing delays, or faces disruptions in their supply chain that prevent them from delivering goods or services on time. The temporary change allows the business to continue operations without significant interruptions and ensures the customer&rsquo;s demands are met. To effectively manage these temporary supplier changes,&nbsp; Supply Chain Planning&nbsp;has introduced three new configurable attributes: Override Source, and Override Source End Date. These attributes are essential for businesses to configure temporary supplier relationships at the item location level. By configuring these, businesses can dynamically switch suppliers without needing to manually adjust every order or production schedule. Override Source: Defines the temporary supplier that will be used for the period of the change. Override Source End Date: Sets a specific end date for the temporary supplier change. Once the end date is reached, the system will revert to the original, primary supplier. Assumptions: Before configuring these attributes, it is critical that the system already has valid item location sources, item locations, and items set up. Without this foundational data, configuring these attributes would not work correctly, as the system needs accurate inventory and location information to process changes in suppliers. Business Importance: Ensures supply chain continuity in case of temporary disruptions. Provides flexibility to manage supplier relationships dynamically. Helps businesses optimize procurement strategies without permanent supplier changes. Use Cases Supported: Temporary supplier unavailability. Business decisions to test alternate suppliers. Managing seasonal supply variations. Process Flow Set up change supplier.&nbsp;Refer to How to set up a Subgroup&nbsp;for more details. Update Primary Source: Initiates the Change Supplier Process through configuration at the item location. Update Subgroup: Updates subgroups and starts the process via configuration at the item location source. Trigger to Compute SOQ: Computes Stock on Hand Quantity (SOQ) based on changes in forecast and/or supply. Replenishment - Compute SOQ Engine: Calculates SOQ for relevant items, sets the old LIM (Line Item Master) to 0, and updates the new LIM with computed values. Trigger the Orderbuild: Initiates the order-building process by copying data from the latest IM to the IM, incorporating any delta changes. Updated Order Totals: Updates final order totals based on the latest changes. Assumptions: Before configuring these attributes, it is critical that the system already has valid item location sources, item locations, sourcing relationship, and items set up. Subgroup with sourcing relationships should be set up. Without this foundational data, configuring these attributes would not work correctly, as the system needs accurate inventory and location information to process changes in suppliers. &nbsp; Set up temporary supplier change.&nbsp;Refer to&nbsp;How to Setup Override Source and Override End Date&nbsp;for more details. The Temporary Supplier Change follows a structured process:&nbsp; Once the Override Source, Override Source EndDate are configured at the item location level, the system triggers an automatic notification to the recalculation queue. This queue will then process the necessary changes. The recalculation process includes the computation of the SOQ for the affected product lines. This ensures that the business will order the correct quantity from the newly designated supplier during the temporary switch. The system will adjust the source relationship to reflect the new supplier. Further calculations, such as inventory forecasting or procurement planning, will be based on this temporary change. Once the Override Source EndDate is reached, the system will revert to the original primary supplier. The overridden values, including the temporary supplier and any subgroup settings, will be nullified in the item location. Validation Criteria: To ensure business continuity and avoid operational risks, there is a validation in place for the Override Source EndDate. The system will not allow the end date to be set more than one week ahead of the current business date. This ensures that temporary supplier changes remain manageable and do not span too long a period, reducing potential disruptions. By implementing this functionality, businesses can handle short-term supplier changes more effectively, minimizing disruption and ensuring that their supply chain remains robust even in the face of unexpected supplier issues. &nbsp; &nbsp; Configuration How to set up Primary source and SubGroup? Primary source at item location Primary Source at the item location {{url}}/itemlocation/api/itemlocation/itemLocation/save &nbsp; { &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&quot;ItemId&quot;:&quot;Car_Battery&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&quot;LocationId&quot;:&quot;Store2&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&quot;PrimarySource&quot;:&quot;DC2&quot;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;} &nbsp; Subgroup update at Item location source: Subgroup {{url}}/itemlocation/api/itemlocation/sourcingRelationship/save { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;SourceLocationId&quot;: &quot;DC1&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;LocationId&quot;: &quot;Store2&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;SubGroup&quot;: &quot;Frozen&quot; } {{url}}/itemlocation/api/itemlocation/itemLocationSource/save { &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&quot;ItemId&quot;: &quot;Car_Battery12&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&quot;LocationId&quot;:&quot;Store2&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&quot;SourceLocationId&quot;:&nbsp;&quot;DC1&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&quot;SubGroup&quot;:&quot;Frozen&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&quot;BaseUOM&quot;:&nbsp;&quot;EA&quot; } &nbsp; How to set up Override source and Override End Date? To setup override source POST- {{url}}/itemlocation/api/itemlocation/itemLocation/bulkImport { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ItemId&quot;: &quot;Car_Battery&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;LocationId&quot;: &quot;Store1&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;PrimarySource&quot;: &quot;DC2&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;OverrideSource&quot;: &quot;DC3&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;OverrideSourceEndDate&quot;: &quot;2025-02-012&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;UseMinimumDays&quot;: false, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;SellingMargin&quot;: null, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;Maximum&quot;: null, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;StockingUOM&quot;: { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;UomId&quot;: &quot;EA&quot; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; } } Services The&nbsp;APIs listed in the following table are referenced in this document. Refer to the API documentation for additional details on&nbsp;each service. Service Component Group Service Endpoint Primary source Item Location &nbsp; {{url}}/itemlocation/api/itemlocation/itemLocation/save SubGroup Item Location Source &nbsp; {{url}}/itemlocation/api/itemlocation/itemLocationSource/save Override source and OverridesourceEndDate Item Location &nbsp; {{url}}/itemlocation/api/itemlocation/itemLocation/save &nbsp; Troubleshooting Q. Orders are not sourced from the new supplier after the configuration change. &nbsp; &nbsp;Verify Configuration: Double-check valid&nbsp;item location source are present for the new supplier. &nbsp; SOQ Recalculation: Manually trigger the SOQ recalculation. &nbsp; Order Status: Check the order status. The changes will apply only when the order is in the suggested/review state. Related Articles PO/ASN ETA based Order ProjectionsOrder Review and ApprovalOrder Refresh ProcessSub GroupsOrder BuildAutomatically Release OrdersOrder DueNotesOrder ExceptionsOrder SplitOrder Projections &nbsp; &nbsp;