# Cluster Profiles

**Permalink:** cluster-profiles
**Content Length:** 5,058 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:50.123829

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Configurations&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Size Profiling ››Cluster Profiles &nbsp; Cluster Profiles &nbsp; &nbsp; Cluster ProfilesFiltersField DescriptionAction Buttons &nbsp; Filters Following is the list of filters available on the screen: Department Class Subclass Style Color Cluster Number Size Category Id Size Category Name Size Profile Policy Id Product Filter Hash &nbsp; The Cluster Profile window displays the cluster profile data along with the locations in the cluster. The data is summarized in the form of a bar chart, where you can search a style using Style ID for more information. Click on the Location in Locations in Cluster to view the size profile page. &nbsp; The size profile for a location is assigned to a cluster. The cluster correlation coefficient of a size profile&nbsp;is calculated as below: Correlation coefficient = covariance / (Standard_deviation(SP) * Standard_deviation(CP)) In the above, SP is Size Profile and CP is Cluster Profile. &nbsp; Field Description Following are the field descriptions of the attributes available on the screen. &nbsp; Field &nbsp; Description &nbsp; Cluster Number Specifies the number of the cluster. Size Profile Policy Id An alphanumeric ID that uniquely defines each policy. Department Defines the organization hierarchy structure at the department level. Class Defines the organization hierarchy structure at the class level. Subclass Defines the organization hierarchy structure at the subclass level. Size Category Id An alphanumeric ID that uniquely defines each size category. Size Category Name Specifies the name of the size category. Color Specifies the color of the product. Style Defines the style of the product. &nbsp; Action Buttons Following are the action buttons available on the screen. Select All Rows Selects all the rows of records on the screen. Related Links Displays the links to the pages related to the current screen. Export Exports the list of method attributes, the file will be downloaded onto your system. View&nbsp;Export&nbsp;for more information. Deselect Clears the selected records. Cluster Profile Displays the Cluster Profile window. &nbsp;