# Configure Commerce Views

**Permalink:** commerce-view-configuration
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Order Management/UI Help/Enterprise Inventory/Available to Commerce/Configure Commerce Views
**Content Length:** 30,799 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:59:27.427746

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Order Management››UI Help››Enterprise Inventory››Available to Commerce ››Configure Commerce Views Configure Commerce Views The commerce view configuration allows a retailer to define different availability rules over a given period of time. For example, the eligible fulfillment locations and items may change for different quarters, seasons or promotional periods. Create a Commerce ViewAdd a Configuration for a Commerce ViewActivate a ConfigurationDeactivate a ConfigurationRebuild an Active ConfigurationSync an Active ConfigurationGenerate Availability Statistics Create a Commerce View Click Menu > Enterprise Inventory > Available to commerce  > Manage Availability. Click  Add new View to view the Add Commerce view pop-up. Enter View Name, and select Network or Location from the  View Type drop-down list. Click Add. The new commerce view tile is displayed in Manage Availability page. Add a Configuration for a Commerce View Multiple configurations can be added to a commerce view. For example, global orders may have a commerce view for summer, winter, autumn, fall configurations, with only one of them being active depending on the season. Hover the mouse over the commerce view tile. Click (image) Add new configuration. In the Add Configuration pop up, enter the configuration name. Click Add. This leads to the General Availability, Regional Availability, and Availability Status tabs that need to be defined to complete the configuration. Configuration menu details Once the configurations have been created for a commerce view, several actions are available: On the Commerce View tile, the View icon is used to view the configuration menu. The number next to the configuration menu icon represents the number of configurations that have been defined for the corresponding commerce view. Select the configuration name to open a contextual menu with options below: For Active Configuration For Inactive Configuration Edit Edit Rename Rename Save As Delete Deactivate Save As Rebuild Activate Sync View Audit View Audit View Statistics Analyze Current State Note: Save As will work only if the existing rule set configuration is complete Activate a Configuration At least one configuration needs to be active for the commerce view to be enabled. If there is an existing active configuration, it will automatically become the active one. Click   icon in the commerce view tile. The number next to the configuration menu icon represents the number of configurations that have been defined for the corresponding commerce view. Hover the mouse over and select the configuration name to view the configuration menu. Navigate to > Configuration Name > Activate. A Warning dialog appears with th message Confirm Activation. You can optionally select the Publish Availability check box to generate a notification for activating the view. Click Yes to activate the configuration. The Commerce view tile turns green when activating a configuration for the first time. The name of the configuration appears in the tile. Note: This action is performed only with inactive configuration. Deactivate a Configuration Deactivating a configuration is done when switching to a different configuration in  the commerce view or when deactivating the commerce view completely in the application. Click icon in the commerce view tile. Select the active configuration name to view the configuration menu. Usually, the Active configuration is first in selection list with a Green dot indicating it is active. Navigate to   > Configuration Name > Deactivate. A Warning dialog box appears with a message to Confirm Deactivation. Click Yes to deactivate the configuration. The Commerce view tile turns grey when deactivating a configuration; however, if the deactivation is due to the activation of another configuration, the commerce view may still remain green in color. Note: This action is performed only with active configuration. Rebuild an Active Configuration Accuracy of the commerce view data is essential for correct availability inventory. Users may be in doubt about the data related to the perpetual or segmented inventory. Rebuilding the active configuration of a commerce view ensures the data is correctly synchronized with the view. The process will update the existing inventory data or create new inventory data. Click the  icon in the commerce view tile. Select the active configuration name to view the configuration menu. Usually, the Active configuration is first in the selection list with a Green dot indicating it is active. Navigate to   > Configuration Name > Rebuild. A Warning dialog appears with a message to Confirm Rebuild. You can optionally select the Publish Availability check box to generate a notification when rebuilding the view. Click Yes to rebuild the configuration. Note: View can be deleted when the view activation or rebuild is under progress. Once the view is activated, view needs to be deactivated if you want to delete. Sync an Active Configuration When new configuration is made active, the inventory records need to be synched with the destination or external systems. The sync operation will be performed based on the setting made in the Sync section in the Availability Status tab in configuration settings. Click the  icon in the commerce view tile. Select the active configuration name to view the configuration menu. Usually, the Active configuration is first in selection list with a Green dot indicating it is active. Navigate to   > Configuration Name > Sync. A Warning dialog appears with a message to Confirm Sync. Click Yes to sync the configuration. Viewing audit details of the configuration A commerce view will have multiple configurations. Each configuration is normally updated and modified several times. The audit details summarizes the user name and time stamp of when the configuration was created, modified, deactivated, or activated in the commerce view. Click the  icon in the commerce view tile. Select the configuration name to view the configuration menu. Navigate to   > Configuration Name > View Audit. The Audit dialog box is displayed along with the details below: Commerce View name - Configuration Name Commerce View ID Created By Last Updated By Activated By Deactivated By Click OK to close the dialog box. Analyze Current State metrics for the active configuration The user can view the summary of the available inventory in the active commerce view. The inventory availability across locations for network and the location commerce view is displayed. After calculating different statistics available in the system, the pop up provides a summary of availability in terms of total items, total locations, and selling units for the selected commerce view. Generate Availability Statistics The availability statistics pop up is generated in two ways: Click the  icon in the commerce view tile. -or- Click the  icon in the commerce view tile. Select the active configuration name to view the configuration menu; usually, the Active configuration is first in the selection list with a Green dot indicating it is active. Navigate to   > Configuration Name > Analyze current state. The Availability Pop-up is displayed. Important Message in the popup window X items included in view from Y locations The total number of items and locations configured for the commerce view. For example, 250500 Items included in view from 1080 locations. X items are available to sell with Y% of all possible units exposed X - Displays the total items which are available to be sold. The stock status is either In Stock or Limited Stock. Y - Displays the percentage of units available to be sold. The total percentage of units exposed compared to total units in scope. For example, 21000 items are available to sell with 59% of all possible units exposed. View Statistics for Inactive configuration You can view the summary of the available inventory in the in active commerce view. The inventory availability across the locations for network and location commerce view is displayed. After calculating different statistics available in the system, the pop up provides a numerical summary of availability in terms of total items, total locations, and selling units for the selected commerce view. This gives an estimate of items, locations and selling units that will be available in commerce view upon activation. Click the  icon in the commerce view tile. Select the inactive configuration name to view the configuration menu. Navigate to   > Configuration Name > View Statistics). The Availability Pop-up is displayed. Compare availability statistics with active configuration The Detailed Availability Statistics comparison with active view report shows a comparison of metrics between the active configuration and the selected inactive configuration for a commerce view. For example, RetailSummer commerce view has three configurations named as C1, C2 and C3. The configuration C1 is active for this commerce view. Using this functionality, you can compare the active C1 with the inactive configuration C3. The resulting report is a pictorial representation of items, locations and units in the form of graphs and charts. It allows you to estimate exact number of items, locations and units that will be added or removed from the commerce view when the inactive configuration is actually activated. To compare with active configuration: Click the  icon in the commerce view tile. Select the inactive configuration name to view the configuration menu. Navigate to   > Configuration Name > View Statistics. The Availability pop-up is displayed. Click the Compare With Active button to generate and view the comparison statistics report between the inactive and active configuration of the commerce view.