# Configure Regional Rules

**Permalink:** configuring-regional
**Content Length:** 6,197 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:34:36.227243

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Enterprise Inventory&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Available to Commerce ››Configure Regional Rules Configure Regional Availability Rules The regional availability rules are used to provide availability based on the order statistics and defined order attributes;&nbsp;and can&nbsp;help improve&nbsp;the accuracy of order promising and order fulfillment in specific business scenarios, such as same-day delivery requests&nbsp;or site-to-store orders. These rules enable you to process orders based on specific order characteristics. Refer to Regional Availability Rules for more information. Add&nbsp;Distance-Based Regional Availability RulesAdd&nbsp;Preferred Facility Regional Availability Rules Benefits of availability rules in fulfilling orders include: Same-day delivery - publish the availability of items from those facilities which can fulfill and deliver the order on the same day. For example, a store or distribution center which lies within a radius of 20 miles may be considered a facility that can do order delivery on the same day. Site-to-Store - publish the availability of items from those facilities that are preferred for shipment to the requested store. For example, a retailer can have a dedicated/preferred DC for ship-to-store orders for a particular store. Add&nbsp;Distance-Based Regional Availability Rules This rule is useful for publishing availability and subsequent order fulfillment from facilities which lie within the distance configured from the destination zip code specified for same-day delivery orders.&nbsp;The distance of the radius is measured in miles or kilometers. Click the&nbsp;Regional Availability&nbsp;tab. Click&nbsp;Add Rule&nbsp;label. Select&nbsp;Limit availability calculations from locations within X miles/kilometers from the destination zip code. Type the preferred number in the box or select a number from the drop-down. Select unit as miles or kilometers. Click &nbsp;Save. Enter rule name and click&nbsp;Add. Add&nbsp;Preferred Facility Regional Availability Rules This rule is useful in publishing availability and subsequent order fulfillment from facilities associated with the pick up store. Optionally, you can publish the available inventory&nbsp;in the pick up store. Click the&nbsp;Regional Availability&nbsp;tab. Click&nbsp;Add Rule&nbsp;label Select&nbsp;Limit availability calculations from fulfillment locations associated with the requested pick-up store. Note: Preferred locations can be configured in the Inventory Location Attributes UI Select Include Availability in the pick up store Click &nbsp;Save Enter rule name and click&nbsp;Add.