# Configure Rule Sets

**Permalink:** configuring-rule-set
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Order Management/UI Help/Enterprise Inventory/Available to Commerce/Configure Rule Sets
**Content Length:** 29,022 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:59:25.947194

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Order Management››UI Help››Enterprise Inventory››Available to Commerce ››Configure Rule Sets Configure Rule Sets A Rule Set defines the criteria that will be used to determine the locations, items, and supply types that contribute to the inventory availability picture. In addition, constraints such as commerce characteristics, inventory protection and capacity can be applied. The rule set belongs to one of the four main facility types: Distribution Centers, Stores, Suppliers and Others. Refer How is Availability Computed for more details. Add a Rule SetRename Rule SetDelete Rule SetSet Location Inclusion FiltersSet Location Exclusion FiltersSet Item Inclusion FiltersSet Supply inclusion filtersDefine Commerce CharacteristicsAdd Inventory Protection and Capacity Rules Add a Rule Set Rule set is defined for facility type in the system. The four facility type are listed based on priority. Once you have added a commerce view and added a configuration, select a facility for which the rule set needs to be added. The options are Distribution Center Stores Suppliers Others Click Add rule set. Enter the name in the text box and click Save. The rule set with the name appears. Note: Rule sets cannot be added for an active configuration. Rename Rule Set To change a rule set name: Hover the mouse over the rule set tile Click Rename rule set. Enter the name in the text box. Click Save. Delete Rule Set To delete a rule set: Hover the mouse over the rule set tile Click Delete rule set. Warning message Confirm rule set deletion Click Yes Set Location Inclusion Filters Click Location tab Click Inclusion label. The label is highlighted in green. Define attributes such as location, segmented, ship from store. Click  Save Enter List name and click Add. The filter list is added under the Inclusion label. The selected filter is highlighted in blue. Hover the mouse to Delete and Rename the filter. To add another inclusion filter, click  inclusion label and repeat steps 1 to 6. Optionally you can select Include all locations to populate all the locations belonging to the selected facility type instead of inclusion filters. Set Location Exclusion Filters Click Location tab Click the Exclusion label. The label is highlighted in green. Define attributes such as location, segmented, ship from store. Click  Save Enter List name and click Add. The filter list is added under the Exclusion label. The selected filter is highlighted in blue. Hover the mouse to Delete and Rename the filter. To add another exclusion filter, click  inclusion label and repeat steps 1 to 6. Set Item Inclusion Filters Click Item tab Click the Inclusion label. The label is highlighted in green. Define attributes such as Item, brand, color, size, sold in stores and more. Click  Save Enter List name and click Add. The filter list is added under the Inclusion label. The selected filter is highlighted in blue. Hover the mouse to Delete and Rename the filter. To add another inclusion filter, click  inclusion label and repeat steps 1 to 6. Optionally you can select Include all Items to populate all the items belonging to the selected facility type instead of inclusion filters. Set Item Exclusion Filters Click Item tab Click the Exclusion label. The label is highlighted in green. Define attributes such as Item, brand, color, size, sold in stores and more. Click  Save Enter List name and click Add. The filter list is added under the Inclusion label. The selected filter is highlighted in blue. Hover the mouse to Delete and Rename the filter. To add another exclusion filter, click on  Exclusion label and repeat steps 1 to 6. Set Supply inclusion filters Set On-hand Criteria Filters Click Supply types tab Click the On Hand Criteria label. The label is highlighted in green. Define attributes such as segments, origin, country of origin, product status and more. Click  Save Enter List name and click Add. The filter list is added under the On hand Criteria label. The selected filter is highlighted in blue. Hover the mouse to Delete and Rename the filter. To add another On hand Criteria filter, click  On Hand Criteria label and repeat steps 1 to 6. Optionally you can select Include all on hand inventory to populate all as on hand inventory instead of  filters. Set In-transit Criteria Filters Click Supply types tab Click the In Transit Criteria label. The label is highlighted in green. Define attributes such as segments, origin, country of origin, product status and more. Click  Save Enter List name and click Add. The filter list is added under the In Transit Criteria label. The selected filter is highlighted in blue. Hover the mouse to Delete and Rename the filter. To add another In Transit Criteria filter, click In  Transit Criteria label and repeat steps 1 to 6. Set On-order Criteria Filters Click Supply types tab Click the On Order Criteria label. The label is highlighted in green. Define attributes such as segments, origin, country of origin, product status and more. Click  Save Enter List name and click Add. The filter list is added under the On Order Criteria label. The selected filter is highlighted in blue. Hover the mouse to Delete and Rename the filter. To add another On Order Criteria filter, click  On Order Criteria label and repeat steps 1 to 6. Constrain future inventory based on ETA Click Protection and Capacity tab Select Constrain future inventory based on arrival date. If future supply constraint is enabled then past by and expected days should have positive value and not left blank. Enter number in the past due by X days and Expected in Y days text boxes. Note that the expected day supports 2-digit number but cannot be more than 99 days. Define Commerce Characteristics Commerce character enables to choose the price status, item status and numerical threshold for item sell through percentage. Also optionally you can define conditions for item attributes. Click Commerce Characteristics tab Define attributes such as Item status, Price Status and Sell through. Also set item attributes if necessary. Click  Save Enter List name and click Add. The filter list is added under the Commerce Rules label. The selected filter is highlighted in blue. Hover the mouse to Delete and Rename the filter. To add another In Commerce rule, click  Add Commerce rule label and repeat steps 1 to 5. Add Inventory Protection and Capacity Rules The protection and capacity tab enables you to set the inventory protection and capacity settings. Click Protection and Capacity tab In the Inventory Protection section, select Protect on hand inventory Optionally select Item Location Protection type - If an external system maintains the inventory protection data through the item-location interface, then the user can set the level of protection that will be applied for the rule set. Select the protection level. Under Capacity section Select Exclude inventory from facilities at full capacity.