# Confirm Pickup Configuration

**Permalink:** confirm-pickup-configuration
**Content Length:** 11,203 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:36:00.801186

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Inventory & Fulfillment&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Order Fulfillment&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Confirm Pickup ››Confirm Pickup Configuration Confirm Pickup&nbsp;Configuration Reason CodesStore Fulfillment ParametersUIs and Entities Reason Codes Reason codes with reason type 'Cancel' must be defined in Store Fulfillment Reasons UI to report cancellations during pickup. Fulfillment type field is not used for cancellation and hence it can remain ‘null'. Store Fulfillment Parameters The following parameters can be configured to control the display of fulfillment instructions during confirm pickup process. Show Fulfillment Instructions on Confirm Pickup Details This parameter controls the display of fulfillment instructions to the associate during the confirm pickup process. If this is set to true, any instructions that exist for the fulfillment are displayed on&nbsp;the confirm pickup details screen.&nbsp;For example, if an instruction is presented with the instruction type 'Gift Message' and instruction text 'Happy Birthday!', it will be displayed to the associate as&nbsp;"Gift Message: Happy Birthday!". By default, this parameter is set to false. Must Verify Customer ID before Confirm Pickup This parameter controls the verification of customer identification during confirm pickup process. If this is set to true,&nbsp;then the Confirm Pickup and Sell More&nbsp;actions are&nbsp;allowed only after the associate verifies the customer ID. By default, this parameter is set to false.&nbsp; Skip Customer Signature Capture before Confirm Pickup This parameter controls&nbsp;the capturing of the customer signature by&nbsp;the associate during the confirm pickup process. If this is set to be true, the associate is not prompted to capture the signature. By default, this parameter is set to false.&nbsp; Skip Customer Signature for the Pickup Subtypes This parameter controls the verification of customer identification during confirm pickup process.&nbsp;The&nbsp;default in this configuration is set as 'Curbside'. Multiple delivery method subtypes can be configured in this configuration. Use colon (:) to separate delivery method subtypes. If the fulfillment has a delivery method subtype as 'InStore' and if the configuration&nbsp;value is set as 'InStore', then it skips the customer&nbsp;signature during the pickup of 'InStore' orders.&nbsp;&nbsp;If the value is not present in the new configuration, then it reads the OLD configuration (i.e. Skip customer signature capture before confirm pickup) and, based on the configuration, it skips or captures&nbsp;the customer signature. &nbsp;If the fulfillment has a delivery method subtype as NULL, then it always reads the old&nbsp;configuration (Skip customer signature capture before confirm pickup). Exclude Background Watermark from Customer Signature This parameter controls whether a customer signature is saved with or without a watermark in the background. If this is set to true, the signature is saved as captured and without any background watermark. By default, this parameter is set to false.&nbsp; Capture Actual Pickup Type during the pickup This parameter controls the actual pickup type during the confirm pickup. Immediately after the pickup process has been completed, associates can be prompted to select the actual pickup type (curbside or in-store). Retailers can use this data to analyze how many pickup orders were&nbsp;delivered&nbsp;curbside versus in-store. This is useful in&nbsp;scenarios when customers originally&nbsp;select one method during order capture&nbsp;but choose the other when they arrive at the store. If captured, this&nbsp;value is updated to the delivery method&nbsp;subtype attribute on the fulfillment. The original value of order capture is retained in the order delivery method subtype attribute. This&nbsp;functionality is controlled by configuration&nbsp;in Store Fulfillment Parameters&nbsp;and is disabled by default. Pickup All Ship to Store Fulfillments for an Order Together This parameter controls the customer’s ability to pick-up all ship-to-store and in-store fulfillments for the same order as a single transaction. If this is set to be true, the customer can pick up the entire order as one transaction (one signature,&nbsp;if captured) rather than one transaction for each fulfillment. Additionally, if this set to true and the user has the proper resource, it is possible for the user to cancel all fulfillments within the same order.&nbsp; By default, this parameter is set to false. Enable reprinting of pickup slip at the time of pickup upon item cancellation This parameter controls the ability to print the pickup slip at the time of confirm pickup when an order line is fully or partially canceled during the pickup transaction. By default, this parameter is set to false. Enable Click to Email Customer This parameter controls the ability to contact the customer via email exchange upon clicking on the hyperlink of the email address of the customer displayed on order details of confirm pickups and curbside pickups processes.&nbsp;Upon clicking the link, the device's default e-mail application is opened. By default, this parameter is set to false. This functionality is also governed by a permission. See the Store Fulfillment UI resources for more information. Enable Click to Call Customer This parameter controls the ability to contact the customer via phone call/message&nbsp;upon clicking on the hyperlink of the phone number of the customer displayed on order details of confirm pickups and curbside pickups processes.&nbsp;Upon clicking the link, the device's default phone application is opened. By default, this parameter is set to false.&nbsp;This functionality is also governed by a permission. See the Store Fulfillment UI resources for more information. External OMS Integration There are two ways to enable this functionality - via the 'isExternalOrder' attribute of the Fulfillment or through the&nbsp;'Is Store Inventory Management deployed?'&nbsp;configuration in Store Fulfillment Parameters. If&nbsp;the&nbsp;Fulfillment property is true, it overrides whatever value is configured. If the value is passed as false, the configuration determines the behavior. For SIF to directly send supply updates to the Inventory component, the value should be set to true (regardless of whether it is set by passing in the Fulfillment or via the configuration.) If the updates should not be set, the value should be false. The default configuration value is false. Configuration: “Is Store Inventory Management deployed?” configuration in the External OMS Integration tab of the Store Fulfillment Parameters. &nbsp; In the event that the external OMS is replaced by Manhattan Active Order Management, ensure that this functionality is turned off. Failure to do so may result in double-dipping of the inventory. Sample Request: { "FulfillmentId" : "Ful001", //existing properties "IsExternalOrder" : true } &nbsp; Show available deals during pickup Set this configuration to true to evaluate and display available promotions&nbsp;at the time of pickup for pickup and ship to store orders. This configuration is disabled by default.&nbsp; Configuration: “Display available deals at the time of pickup” configuration in the&nbsp;Details&nbsp;tab of the&nbsp;Store Fulfillment Parameters. &nbsp; UIs and Entities The configuration UIs mentioned in this document are&nbsp;listed in the following table,&nbsp;along with information to&nbsp;navigate&nbsp;to the API documentation: UI Name Component Group Seed Data Present? Seed Data Profile Store Fulfillment Parameters Fulfillment FulfillmentParameters Services Yes Base Store Fulfillment Reasons Fulfillment&nbsp; FulfillmentReasons Services Yes Base &nbsp;