# Confirm Pickup Process

**Permalink:** confirm-pickup-process
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Store/Process & Configuration Guides/Store Inventory & Fulfillment/Store Order Fulfillment/Confirm Pickup/Process
**Content Length:** 44,129 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:04:02.622572

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Store››Process & Configuration Guides››Store Inventory & Fulfillment››Store Order Fulfillment››Confirm Pickup ››Confirm Pickup Process Confirm Pickup Process Confirm Pickup ProcessInitiationStagingConfirm PickupList FulfillmentsDisplay Primary Pickup Person DetailsFulfillment DetailFulfillment:Customer:Items:Customer ID VerificationCapture SignatureUpdatesExceptionsCancel OrderCancel LineCancel Partial Line QuantitySubstitution during PickingPickup all Items in one TransactionLinked Fulfillments with In-Store and Curbside Pickup OptionsCancel with Linked FulfillmentsUpdatesExtend Pickup WindowAdditional In-Store PurchasesShow Available Deals during PickupText MessagingFulfillment Outbound EventsRFIDExternal OMS Integration with Active SIMReserve Online & Pickup in StoreServices Confirm pickup refers to the process when the customer retrieves in-store pickup or ship-to-store orders from the store. A pickup slip containing customer and fulfillment information can optionally be printed and is available with the ordered items prior to pick up for identification purposes. The confirm pickup process behaves in the same manner for both pickup and ship to store orders. To know more on the  confirm pickups activity during offline mode, please refer to the Store Offline Support page. Initiation Pickup Slip The pickup slip document contains customer and fulfillment information that can optionally be printed for pickup or ship to store orders. When the document is available with the order, the document facilitates the pickup process for the associate. The pickup slip contains the following information: Customer name Fulfillment Order Item Item description Item style, color, size Quantity The Pickup Slip service triggers the generation of the pickup slip. The same service is used to generate reprint, if needed. Refer to the Printing guide for additional information on the pickup slip. Staging With the staging process, associates can locate pickup or ship-to-store orders into staging locations until the customer arrives for pickup. The staging location(s) where the order is located is provided to the associate at the time of confirm pickup to aid in locating the order. Refer to the Staging guide for further information. Confirm Pickup The fulfillments must be picked and optionally staged to perform the confirm pickup process. Eligible statuses are picked, partially sorted and sorted. List Fulfillments The eligible fulfillments are provided to the associate by default using the List Fulfillment service (with no keyword.) Based on configuration, a ship to store order shipped from a fulfilling store in multiple packages can be split into multiple pickup fulfillments. This allows the customer to pick up each package separately as it becomes available in the pickup store if the others become lost or delayed. In this case, the associate can confirm pickup for all packages together based on the configuration as explained in this section. Refer to Shipping process guide for more details. The associates can enter (or scan) customer or order information to narrow down the list of fulfillments in the list. This calls the List Fulfillment service (using the entered search keywords) which returns all matching fulfillments (whether they are eligible for pickup or not) in chronological order. Non-eligible statuses are listed to help answer customer's inquiries. The List Fulfillment service allows the associate to search by a part of the first name, last name, phone number or e-mail address of the customer. It supports a full/exact match for search based on the order and fulfillment numbers. The following information is available to the associate as part of the fulfillment list: Customer's name Customer's email address Customer's phone number Fulfillment number Total number of packages (for ship to store orders) Status Status date/time Note: For UI usability, the time is shown using this logic: Less than 90 minutes: shown in minutes 91 minutes to 48 hours: shown in hours greater than 48 hours: shown in days For example, "Picked 77 mins ago". Display Primary Pickup Person Details When the order creator provides the primary pickup person’s details while placing the order, the confirm pickup UI will display those details on both the order list screen and details screen. Store associates can search for the order using either the primary pickup person’s or the order creator’s details. If the order creator provides details for an alternate pickup person who is not the primary pickup person, the confirm pickup order list screen will show the order creator’s details, and the details screen will display both the order creator’s and alternate pickup person’s details. Summary Points: Confirm Pickup Search: Allows searching order by either Ordered By or Primary Pickup person. Confirm Pickup List UI: Shows Primary Pickup (if provided), or Ordered By (if no Primary Pickup exists). Confirm Pickup Details UI: Displays Ordered By, Primary Pickup (if available), or Alternate Pickup (if provided). Examples: Scenario 1: Steve placed an order and listed Amy as the primary pickup person. The confirm pickup UI shows Amy’s name since she is the primary pickup person. Store associates can search for the order using either Amy's or Steve's details. Scenario 2: Steve placed an order and listed Amy as the alternate pickup person. The confirm pickup UI displays Steve’s name, not Amy’s, since she is not the primary pickup person. Store associates can search for the order using either Amy's or Steve's details. Fulfillment Detail When the store associate selects a fulfillment from the list, the Get Fulfillment service obtains additional information for the fulfillment. The following information is available to the associate: Fulfillment: Fulfillment number Pickup expiry date Total number of units Staging locations Status Pickedup by (For Picked up fulfillments) Pickedup on (For Picked up fulfillments) Pickup Contact (For Picked up fulfillments) Pickup Contact Signature (For Picked up fulfillments) Canceled by (For canceled fulfillments) Canceled on (For canceled fulfillments) Canceled reason (For canceled fulfillments) Customer: Customer's name Customer's email address Customer's phone number Customer's loyalty status (shown when the customer's details exist in the customer component and loyalty status value is found) Customer since (shown when the customer's details exist in the customer component and member since date is found) Primary Pickup contact if one has been authorized to pick up the fulfillment Aletrnate Pickup Contact Note: The fulfillment details display a maximum of two pickup person details: the person who placed the order and a second person. This second person can either be the primary pickup person or the most recent alternate pickup person if none of the alternate pickup persons are marked as primary. Items: Item Item's description Item image Style, color, size, and UPC Picked quantity Reason code: cancel reason code. If the cancel reason code is null, the short reason code is returned. Customer ID Verification Retailers can control whether customer identification must be verified prior to confirming the pickup or selling additional merchandise through the "Must Verify Customer ID before Confirm Pickup" configuration. Refer to the configuration guide for additional information. Capture Signature Based on configuration, the associate can capture the name of the customer picking up the order as well as their signature as proof of pickup. An additional configuration decides whether the signature is saved with a background watermark or not. The watermark is selected by the system based on the UI theme used. Refer to the Confirm Pickup Configuration guide for more details. Note: Once the signature is saved with or without a watermark, the background watermark cannot be changed. Note: Customers' signatures are retained as long as archive / purge configuration permits. Refer to the Archive / Purge Configuration guide for more details. Updates Once the pickup process is completed, the fulfillment status is updated to "Picked Up", pickedup value is updated to the total value of picked up items and a confirm pickup event is created. The Confirm Pickup service triggers the updates. Exceptions Cancel Order Pickup orders can be canceled for the following reasons: The customer cancels the order by communicating with the store or with customer service. The customer does not arrive for pickup. A valid reason code is required to cancel an order. Orders cannot be canceled after they have been picked up. Cancel order is controlled by grants of the associate. The Cancel service triggers the updates. A picked date time of an order is provided to determine no-shows by customer. Order level cancelations occur immediately and cannot be undone. Canceled orders are returned to the shelf. Refer to Return to Shelf Process guide for more information. Cancel Line A particular line on a pickup order can be canceled. A valid reason code is required to cancel an order line. An order line cannot be canceled after the order has been picked up. Cancel order line is controlled by grants of the associate. The same Cancel service as used for canceling the order (above) triggers the updates. Line-level cancelations can be undone prior to pickup using the "Undo Cancel" action. When a line is cancelled, configuration determines if the associate gets the option to print an updated pickup slip. Canceled order lines are returned to the shelf. Refer to Return to Shelf Process guide for more information. Cancel Partial Line Quantity If the customer wishes to purchase only a part of an order line, the line can be partially cancelled. As with the cancel line function (see above), a valid reason code is required, and the cancellation cannot occur after the order has been picked up. The ability to partially cancel an order line is controlled by grants of the associate. When a partial quantity is canceled, configuration determines if the associate gets the option to print an updated pickup slip. Partial quantity cancelations can be undone prior to pickup using the "Undo Cancel" action. The same Confirm Pickup service as used for updating picked up quantities of the order (above) triggers the partial cancellation updates. If the entire order is cancelled (entire quantity of all the order lines), then the same Cancel service as used for canceling the order (above) triggers the updates. Substitution during Picking If an in-store substitution occurred, the substitute item is displayed in place of the ordered item in the Confirm Pickups Order Details UI. Such lines are also denoted by a red substituted indicator. If the store associate taps on such a line, the item details UI also displays the substitute item details along with a substituted indicator. Cancelled and Picked Up orders also display the substitute item details along with a red substituted indicator in the Confirm Pickups Order Details UI. For more details on substitution in stores, refer to its documentation here. Pickup all Items in one Transaction When a customer pickup order is fulfilled from multiple locations (ship to store and/or in-store fulfillments), the pickup can be processed as a single transaction (if signature is captured, one signature.) All fulfillments for the orders that are ready for pickup (in statuses "Picked" or "Sorted") are eligible for the consolidated pickup. At the time of pickup, if an order has more than one fulfillment which is ready for pickup, a linked indicator displays on the Confirm Pickup UI for each of those fulfillments along with the total number of fulfillments ready for pickup. Items for all fulfillments that are ready for pickup are shown to the associate on the Order Details UI screen. The customer can pick up linked fulfillments together, even if the delivery method sub types (Curbside & In Store) are different. At the time of confirming a pickup, if fulfillments tied to the order are not yet ready for pickup (status <> "picked' or "sorted"), they are not shown to the associate by default, as a linked fulfillment which can be picked up. If the customer does not wish to pick up all the linked fulfillments at the present time (i.e., one item is too big to fit in their car), the associate can process only the fulfillment(s) that the customer wants to pick up at this time and leave the other fulfillment(s) for pickup later. When the customer returns, those remaining fulfillment(s) will show a linked indicator only if any additional fulfillment(s) is still in an eligible pickup status at that time (at least two fulfillments for the order are eligible for pickup). The ability to process pickup for multiple fulfillments in a single transaction is based on configuration but does not require the associate to have any special user grants. Refer to the Confirm Pickup Configuration for additional information. Note: - Customer information, alternate pickup contact and curbside instructions are displayed at the order level as the information should be the same for all linked fulfillments. The information is obtained from the first of the linked fulfillments. Linked Fulfillments with In-Store and Curbside Pickup Options If the original order is designated with in-store as well as curbside pickup, then linked fulfillments associated with the order will have mixed delivery method sub types. In this case, if one method requires customer signature at the time of pickup and the other does not require signature, then the parameter to be honored is decided as explained below: In case a customer decides to pick up in-store or curbside without sending curbside instructions, then the most conservative signature capture configuration is still used. For example, if in- store pickup requires a signature, then the customer must sign at the time of order pickup. In case a customer decides to pick up curbside and sends curbside instructions with delivery method sub type, then the 'In-store' fulfillment is automatically updated to 'Curbside'. In this case, the signature capture configuration for the curbside subtype is honored. Cancel with Linked Fulfillments Since multiple fulfillments are being picked up together, it is possible that the customer may cancel a fulfillment at the time of pickup. In this case, the Confirm Pickup API updates the picked-up fulfillments as well as cancelled fulfillments. If one or more linked fulfillments that are ready for pickup are cancelled entirely, the Cancel Order API updates all the fulfillments that are being cancelled. If any remaining fulfillments for the order are not yet ready for pickup, they can still be picked up later once ready for pickup. It is also possible to cancel all linked fulfillments within the same order, if the user is granted the proper resource. Refer to the Exceptions section of this document for additional details on Cancel flows. Updates These are updates that the Confirm Pickup process makes to fulfillments such as customer ID being verified, customer signature capture and actual pickup method are made to all linked fulfillments which are picked up with a single transaction. Extend Pickup Window A store associate can extend the pickup window by editing the pickup expiry field from the order details if needed. The Extend Pickup Date of an order service updates the pickup expiry date on fulfillment. Associates can extend the pickup date from the current date, to any date till the next two months. The expiry date of a pickup order is calculated by adding the configured number of days to the picked date. Refer to the configuration for additional details. . Digital Self-Service offers the ability for customers to extend pickup windows as well. Refer to the Digital Self-Service Process guide and Extend Pickup Window guide for additional information. If the order is expired and the pickup date is not extended, then the order is returned to the shelf. Refer to Return to Shelf Process guide for more information. Additional In-Store Purchases A pickup in-store program can drive additional sales (Sell More) in the store due to pick-up foot traffic that allows store associates to upsell to customers. Based on grants, store associates can easily add additional in-store purchase items to the pickup transaction, creating a seamless transaction experience for the customer. When an additional purchase is completed with a pickup confirmation, the following data points are captured as part of the Confirm Pickup service: The monetary value of additional purchases during pickup Additional units sold during pickup Refer to the POS-Selling guide for more information. Show Available Deals during Pickup To help the store associates upsell, any ongoing promotions can be evaluated and displayed in the Confirm Pickups UI for pickup at store and ship to store orders. The list of eligible promotions is determined by passing the fulfillment details to the promotions engine. Similar to the POS Cart UI, only promotions which have prompts setup for the selling channel of the order will be shown (for more information, see this page). This feature is enabled based on business configuration and is also controlled by UI resources. If the fulfillment is eligible for at least one promotion, in the Confirm Pickups UI: An available deals toast message is displayed when the Order Details UI is loaded. A deals count is displayed on the context (more) menu of the Order Details page. An "Available Deals" option is displayed in the context (more) menu along with a deals count. Tapping on the "Available Deals" option from the context menu or the "View" button from the toast message displays a popup which lists each available promotion and the corresponding details, including the promotion ID, prompt text and banner URL image. Note: Promotions are shown only for pickup and ship to store orders, not for same-day delivery and reserve online and pickup in store (ROPIS) orders. Note: Additional In-Store Purchases (Sell More) and Show Available Deals during Pickup are not available for orders involving substitution. Text Messaging Store associates can send a text message to the customer from the Confirm Pickup UI. The ability to text is based on configuration, is permission-based, and requires that the customer has opted in to receive text messages. Refer to Curbside Pickup guide for additional information. Fulfillment Outbound Events Scenario Fulfillment Event Outbound Message Name Order Event Created from Fulfillment Outbound Message When a customer picks up the items from the store. Fulfillment moves to "Picked-Up" status. The shipped quantity is updated for the same. Fulfillment Pickedup An order event is created with the type "PickUp" When fulfillment is canceled Fulfillment moves to "Canceled" status. The canceled quantity is updated for the same. In the fulfillment outbound, eventname is FulfillmentCancel and in the changeset, min and max status of the fulfillment is 3000.00 (picked). This information says that during the pickup, the entire fulfillment was canceled. Fulfillment Canceled An order event is created with the type "PickUp" When fulfillment line is canceled Fulfillment line moves to "Canceled" status. The canceled quantity is updated for the same. Fulfillment Line Canceled An order event is created with the type "Pickup" When a fulfillment line is partially canceled Fulfillment line moves to "Pickedup" status. The picked-up quantity and canceled quantity are updated for the same Fulfillment Canceled An order event is created with the type "PickUp" RFID Store associates can fulfill pickup, curbside, same day delivery and Ship to Store (pickup leg) orders by reading their unit-level RFID tags using an RFID reader. When these orders are picked up by their respective customers, the units picked up as part of these orders are moved to "Departed" status. Please refer to the Store RFID guide for more information on the RFID support available in Stores. Note: Any units which are cancelled right through the Confirm Pickup process or returned to shelf are moved back to "Available" from "Reserved". External OMS Integration with Active SIM When Manhattan Active Store Inventory Management is integrated with an external Order Management System (OMS), SIF can be configured to directly send supply updates to the Inventory component since Manhattan Active Order Management is not present to send the inventory update. This applies to Pickup at Store (including Curbside pickups), Ship to Store and Same Day Delivery orders that are fulfilled by the store. This functionality should be enabled only when Active Store Inventory Management is deployed with an external OMS. Order Supply Transaction Type Supply Update Inventory Transaction Type Inventory Transaction Value (mapped to Inventory Transaction ID in the Supply Event) Pickup at Store Adjustment Reduce On-Hand Supply Order Pickup OrderId:FulfillmentId Ship to Store Pickup Leg Adjustment Reduce On-Hand Supply Order Pickup OrderId:FulfillmentId Same Day Delivery Adjustment Reduce On-Hand Supply Order Ship OrderId:FulfillmentId The “Ship” Store Transaction Type and its override do not come into effect when this feature is enabled. Additionally, the following relay attributes are sent as part of the supply event for Inventory Audit purposes: Order Id Order Line Id Fulfillment Id Fulfillment Line Id This functionality can be enabled for all fulfillment types via a configuration (refer to the configuration guide), or for specific fulfillment types. For example, SIF can be configured to send inventory updates only for Pullback & Transfer orders. If the functionality should only be enabled for certain fulfillment types, pass the 'isExternalOrder' property in the Fulfillment as true and leave the configuration set to false. For a given fulfillment, the logic of whether to use the Fulfillment property or the configuration is described below: If the Fulfillment isExternalOrder flag is true, it overrides whatever value is set in the configuration. If the Fulfillment isExternalOrder flag is false, the configuration is checked to determine the behavior. Reserve Online & Pickup in Store ROPIS orders mean capturing the orders, reserving the inventory for customer pickup without collecting the payment upfront. With Manhattan Active® Omni, ROPIS orders can be created and fulfilled using Manhattan Active® Omni Store Inventory & Fulfillment (MAO SIF) in conjunction with Manhattan Active® Omni Point of Sale (MAO POS). Refer to the ROPIS orders detailed documentation for more information. Services The APIs listed in the following table are referenced in this document. Refer to the API documentation for additional details on each service. Service Component Group Service Endpoint Cancel Fulfillment fulfillment-process-controller fulfillment/api/fulfillment/fulfillment/cancel Confirm Pickup Fulfillment fulfillment-process-controller fulfillment/api/fulfillment/fulfillment/confirmpickup Extend Pickup date of an order Fulfillment fulfillment-process-controller /fulfillment/api/fulfillment/fulfillment/extendPickUpDate Get Fulfillment Fulfillment fulfillment services fulfillment/api/fulfillment/fulfillment/fulfillmentId/{fulfillmentId} List Fulfillments Fulfillment fulfillment-list-controller fulfillment/api/fulfillment/fulfillment/listFulfillments Pickup Slip Fulfillment fulfillment-report-controller fulfillment/api/fulfillment/fulfillment/pickupSlip/fulfillmentId/{fulfillmentId} List Linked Fulfillments Fulfillment fulfillment-list-controller fulfillment/api/fulfillment/fulfillment/getLinkedFulfillmentsForPickup Confirm Pickup Linked Fulfillments together Fulfillment fulfillment-process-controller fulfillment/api/fulfillment/fulfillment/confirmpickups