# Contact Customer Process

**Permalink:** contact-customer-process
**Content Length:** 9,831 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:36:02.467077

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Inventory & Fulfillment&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Order Fulfillment&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Contact Customer ››Contact Customer Process Contact&nbsp;Customer Process Contact&nbsp;Customer ProcessAll Ready For Pickup&nbsp;OrdersExpired OrdersExpiring&nbsp;OrdersText MessagingNotify Customer Before CancelationCancellation after Contacting CustomerReserve Online & Pickup in StoreSubstitution during PickingServices Store associates can view the list of expired and expiring soon orders and&nbsp;can then call the customer to extend the pickup window for such orders. Users can filter the orders to view only expired orders,&nbsp;expiring soon orders, or both. Users can view the order details and perform the extend pickup window function. Extend Pickup date of an order service is used to extend the pickup window. Expired orders also indicate the period for which the order has been expired.&nbsp;The period is calculated as the difference between the current date and the pickup expiry date of the order.The current date is taken as the pickup expiry date for orders that are expiring today. The current date plus one day is taken as the pickup expiry date for orders that are expiring tomorrow. To know more on the&nbsp; contact customer related activity during offline mode, please refer to the&nbsp;Store Offline Support&nbsp;page. All Ready For Pickup&nbsp;Orders Based on configuration, the All Ready For Pickups filter is added to the filter section&nbsp;and applied by default to list&nbsp;all ready for pickup orders.&nbsp;Refer to the Contact Customer Configuration&nbsp;guide for more details. Expired Orders Expired orders are listed based on the following conditions: Delivery type of the order should be &quot;Pickup at store&quot; or &quot;Ship to store&quot; with destination action &quot;Pickup&quot; The pickup expiry date of the order should be less than the&nbsp;current date.&nbsp; Order Status should be less than &quot;Picked Up&quot;. Canceled orders are ignored. Expiring&nbsp;Orders Expiring soon&nbsp;orders are listed based on the following conditions: Delivery type of the order should be &quot;Pickup at store&quot; or &quot;Ship to store&quot; with destination action &quot;Pickup&quot; The pickup expiry date of the order should be the same as the current date or current date +1. This indicates that the pickup expiry is either today or tomorrow. Order Status should be less than &quot;Picked Up&quot;. Canceled orders are ignored. List Fulfillments service is used to list expired and expiring fulfillments to contact customers. Text Messaging Store associates have the ability to send a text message to the customer from the Contact Customer UI. The ability to text is based on configuration, is permission-based and requires that the customer has opted in to receive text messages.&nbsp;Refer to Curbside Pickup guide for additional information. Notify Customer Before Cancelation When the pickup expiry date on the order is changed, a fulfillment update is sent to the Order Management system&nbsp;via&nbsp;fulfillment outbound message. This helps in&nbsp;sending reminders to customers to pickup the order&nbsp;before it&#39;s canceled. Cancellation after Contacting Customer If retailers are using a linked fulfillment feature, i.e. &quot;Pickup all ship to store fulfillments for an order together&quot; parameter is turned on, and if the associate requires to&nbsp;cancel the order from the Contact Customer, it is required to enable the &quot;Allow late order cancelation&quot; parameter, which allows cancellation at the line level. Reserve Online & Pickup in Store ROPIS orders mean&nbsp;capturing the orders, reserving the inventory for customer pickup without collecting the payment upfront. With Manhattan&nbsp;Active&reg; Omni,&nbsp;ROPIS orders can be created and fulfilled using&nbsp;Manhattan&nbsp;Active&reg; Omni Store Inventory & Fulfillment (MAO SIF) in conjunction with Manhattan Active&reg; Omni Point of Sale (MAO POS). Refer to the&nbsp;ROPIS orders&nbsp;detailed documentation for more information. Substitution during Picking If an in-store substitution occurred, the substitute item is displayed&nbsp;in place of the ordered item in the Contact Customer Order Details UI. Such lines are also denoted by a red substituted indicator. If the store associate taps on such a line, the item details UI also displays the substitute item details along with a substituted indicator. The following capabilities are disabled in the Contact Customer for any fulfillment whose one or more lines have been substituted: Line cancellation using the swipe option. Ship Order button (Store-initiated Ship It Instead) For more details on substitution in stores, refer to its documentation here. Services The&nbsp;APIs listed in the following table are referenced in this document. Refer to the API documentation for additional details on&nbsp;each service. Service Component Group Service Endpoint List Fulfillments&nbsp; Fulfillment fulfillment-list-controller /fulfillment/api/fulfillment/fulfillment/listFulfillments Extend Pickup date of an order Fulfillment fulfillment-process-controller /fulfillment/api/fulfillment/fulfillment/extendPickUpDate &nbsp; Note: This is the same API that is used for&nbsp;listing orders that are displayed on the Confirm Pickup UI. Tags are&nbsp;added for&nbsp;&ldquo;Expired&rdquo; or&nbsp;&ldquo;ExpiringSoon&rdquo; (or both)&nbsp;in the request payload. &nbsp;