# Contact Customer Service

**Permalink:** contactus
**Content Length:** 10,402 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:33:48.561562

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Digital Self-Service ››Contact Customer Service Contact Customer Service in Digital Self-Service OverviewChatContact UsConfiguration&nbsp;To configure &#39;Chat&#39;&nbsp;In Digital Self-Service&nbsp;In Customer Engagement&nbsp;&nbsp;To configure &#39;Contact Us&#39;&nbsp;Customizing the UI StylingFeature ScopeHow to Test Overview In Digital Self-Service, customers can contact customer service through the &quot;Contact Us&quot; option or &#39;Chat&#39; option. &#39;Chat&#39; option allows a customer to chat with an agent, while&nbsp;&#39;Contact Us&#39; option supports&nbsp;reaching out through phone, text, email, and Twitter. Chat A customer can initiate live chat with a&nbsp;customer service agent by using the chat icon&nbsp;on Digital Self-Service pages. When a customer clicks on the chat icon, a&nbsp;chat window is displayed, and they are presented with a form requesting&nbsp;their first and last name, and email address. To start the conversation, the customer should enter the details&nbsp;and click on Submit button.&nbsp; During the chat, when the customer clicks minimize, the chat window is closed and the chat icon is displayed in its original form. Refer&nbsp;here&nbsp;to enable the live chat feature on the Digital Self-Service pages. Note : The ability to live chat with an agent in Digital Self-Service is supported by leveraging the Manhattan Active&reg; Customer Engagement module. To enable this&nbsp;feature in Digital Self-Service,&nbsp;the Customer Engagement module needs to be&nbsp;set-up and configured appropriately.&nbsp; Contact Us The &#39;Contact Us&#39; option displays multiple ways to get support. For example, if a customer encounters issues or has questions while creating a return in Digital Self-Service, they can select &#39;Text us&#39;. This launches the native text application with a new text message drafted to the&nbsp;phone number configured by the retailer for returns. The customer can type their message, send the text, and begin a conversation with customer service directly from the Digital Self-Service page. The following is configurable: The contact options displayed on each page (for example,&nbsp;display &#39;Call us&#39; and &#39;Text us&#39; on Returns, only &#39;Call us&#39; on Shipment Tracking, and no options on the Curbside Pickup page) The phone number, email address, text number, and Twitter handle for each page (for example, use phone number A for returns but phone number B for shipment tracking) The sequence the customer sees contact options in the user interface overlay &nbsp; Configuration &nbsp;To configure &#39;Chat&#39;&nbsp; In Digital Self-Service&nbsp; Navigate to the&nbsp;Digital Self Service Configuration in the menu Select the default config and&nbsp;view. Select the Details tab. Select the &#39;Enable Chat Feature in Self Service Pages&#39;&nbsp;check box. In Customer Engagement&nbsp; Enable only &quot;Live Chat&quot; option by executing the following script with the correct value for &quot;ConfigId&quot;. This script should be executed at parent organization level. POST&nbsp; &nbsp;{{url}}/customerinteraction/api/customerinteraction/interactionConfig/save&nbsp; { &quot;ConfigId&quot;: &quot;&quot;, &quot;EnableLiveChat&quot;: true, &quot;EnableChatbot&quot;: false } &nbsp; &nbsp;To configure &#39;Contact Us&#39;&nbsp; Navigate to the&nbsp;Digital Self Service Configuration in the menu. Select the default config and&nbsp;view. Select the Contact Us Config tab. Add the desired contact options for each feature. The following fields are required for each entry: Contact Configuration Field Description Page ID Digital Self-Service page where the contact us option is displayed Contact Option Contact option such as email, text, phone, or Twitter Contact Info The retailers phone number, email address, text phone number, or Twitter handle&nbsp;for the customer to contact If required, country code must be&nbsp;included in phone number configurations and will not be automatically added. To configure the Twitter handle, use the&nbsp;numeric twitter User ID&nbsp;found in your Twitter settings -&gt; Your Twitter Data tab and under the customer username Sequence The sequence in which the&nbsp;options display. Sequence 1 is nearest to the bottom/Contact Us button. Moving upwards from the bottom are sequences 2, 3, etc. One entry is required per page/feature. For example, to display &#39;Call Us&#39; on both the Shipment Tracking and Returns pages, two entries are required: one for Contact Option &#39;Phone&#39; and Page ID &#39;Shipment Tracking&#39;, and a second for&nbsp;Contact Option &#39;Phone&#39; and Page ID &#39;Returns&#39;. The phone number (Contact Info) can be unique or common for both pages, but one entry per page is required. For store use cases like Curbside Pickup or Extend Pickup Window, the UI already has an option for the customer to call the store. Contact customer service can&nbsp;optionally be enabled in addition to that feature. The contact phone number, email address, text number, and other contact details can be configured with&nbsp;the store&#39;s contact information or customer service. Customizing the UI Styling The icon color, icon&nbsp;background color, font family, and font color can be customized using CSS styling:&nbsp;UI Theming & Customization. Currently, the icons cannot be customized. Feature Scope Additional contact channels (for example, WhatsApp, Facebook Messenger) are not supported and cannot currently be added via customization. Pre-populating data such as order ID, customer ID, or pre-templated text in the texts, emails, or Tweets is not supported. Configuring and displaying hours available for phone calls, text, and so on,&nbsp;is not currently supported. If enabled, these options are displayed 24/7. How to Test Enable at least one contact option via the configuration mentioned above. Configure the destination phone number, email address, or text number as one that you have access to, so you can verify that the feature works. Bring up the Digital Self-Service page (See details for how to do this in the corresponding feature guide). Note: Text/phone options work best on mobile, but these can be tested from some tablet/desktop devices like Mac computers. On the&nbsp;Digital Self-Service page, click the &#39;Contact Us&#39; icon at the bottom right of the page to bring up contact options. In the native text, phone, email, or Twitter app, type your message and send. Verify in the destination account (phone, email, and&nbsp;so on) that your message is received.