# Continuous Allocation

**Permalink:** continuous-allocation
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Order Management/Process & Configuration Guides/Order Processing/Order Fulfillment/Order Allocation/Continuous
**Content Length:** 78,467 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:57:16.906856

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Order Management››Process & Configuration Guides››Order Processing››Order Fulfillment››Order Allocation ››Continuous Allocation Continuous Allocation Previous I Next OverviewHow Continuous Allocation WorksContinuous Allocation EngineContinuous Allocation TriggersDemand Change TriggersSupply Change TriggersIneligible Constraints for Continuous AllocationContinuous Allocation for Multiple Organization Set upHandle Backorders (Complete/Partial)Forward and Backward TransferList of Use CasesContinuous Allocation Vs Batch ReAllocationDeallocation Grace PeriodLock Allocation Before ReleaseContinuous Allocation Within Location Group (Sort Attribute - Location Rank)Continuous Allocation Within Location Group (Sort Attribute - Supply Type)Hold Inventory for BackorderContinuous Allocation of Kit ItemsConfigurationHow to Enable Continuous AllocationHow to Configure Continuous Allocation Within Location Group - By Location RankHow to Configure Continuous Allocation Within Location Group - By Supply TypeHow to hold inventory only for backorder during continuous allocation How to Configure Deallocation Grace Period How to Configure Lock Allocation Before ReleaseImplementation FlavorsTroubleshootingUnable to transfer allocation for orders captured in a non-configured Continuous Allocation organizationUnable to transfer allocation for cross-dock orders captured in a non-configured Continuous Allocation organizationRelated Articles Overview Continuous Allocation is a process of near real-time reallocation of an order line to a better supply within the same fulfillment location. Whenever supply or demand changes for an item, the system evaluates existing order lines and reallocate lines in order of their priority to available supply. In addition to immediate and batch (allocation and reallocation), users can configure “Continuous Allocation” to continuously evaluate fulfillment optimization in real time. Continuous allocation ensures that allocated orders leverage the optimal supply at the fulfillment location and backordered lines are reevaluated in real time. Continuous Allocation is triggered and evaluated at the line level. Continuous Allocation allows businesses to ensure that future dated orders, orders allocated against future inventory, and backordered lines are allocated in real time to the most optimal supply and are continuously reevaluated when supply availability changes. Whenever an order is allocated and allocation is suboptimal (allocated to future inventory or second rank supply), “Continuous Allocation” keeps track of the item and the fulfillment location. Continuous Allocation is triggered when availability is changed by supply change events such as supply increase/decrease, ETA update, error set/reset, or demand change events such as order create, update or cancel. In case of an availability increase, inventory is blocked temporarily to utilize in allocation for existing orders. Once complete, the remaining inventory is exposed to selling channels for new orders. This ensures existing promises are met before accepting new demand for the item. Note: If there are backordered order lines in the system when enabling continuous allocation, “Batch Reallocation” needs to run once. This step is one-time activity to ensure all the existing orders are evaluated in the very first run of “Continuous Allocation”. How Continuous Allocation Works Refer to How Allocation Works for details on Allocation rules When an order is allocated either by Immediate or Batch allocation job, promising tries to find inventory at the most optimal location and create a reservation. Refer to How to Enable Continuous Allocation section for more details. If continuous allocation is enabled, then the following steps are carried out. In Inventory, whenever a reservation is saved, the system identifies whether the continuous allocation is required or not. If a line is allocated to future inventory or second rank supply or backordered, it is considered as suboptimal allocation and the trigger table “ItemToReshuffle” is populated with Item Id and location Id. Whenever availability changes for this item because of demand/ supply change events, the system checks whether Continuous Allocation is required for the item at a given location based on the trigger table. If it is required, Continuous Allocation is triggered. Inventory is always blocked when availability is increased either by Demand Change such as Order Cancellation, Order Update (quantity decreased), or Supply Change such as supply increase, supply error reset, and so on. Continuous Allocation maps the highest priority demand (order line) as per the “Effective Rank, Latest Release Date and create time” to the highest ranked supply type for an item Id at a given location. Once reallocation is done, an allocation correction message is sent to the order. Order will make a call to promising to recompute scheduling dates (earliest dates) and update order allocation. If the order line has any quantity in backorder status, the order will call promising to check availability at any other location. Once the continuous allocation process is completed, the remaining inventory is exposed to selling channels. In Fulfillment Optimization Config, if no optimization factor is selected, Location Proximity is the default optimization factor. Continuous Allocation will not be triggered if Order is not Confirmed. Note: When Continuous Allocation is enabled, inventory increase scenarios such as order cancel, order line cancel, WM Short, Quantity decrease update, and so on. In such cases, inventory will be blocked by temp reservation and system triggers reshuffle to validate whether this inventory can be allocated to any other backorders in the system, and will be released immediately after the reshuffle process is complete. Continuous allocation is a near real-time process. The system waits for 10 minutes (not configurable) and runs allocation only once for the items where demand or supply has changed. If there are orders that have different priorities, the system may take more than 10 minutes to reshuffle the supply among them. Continuous allocation will always reshuffle all order lines which are less than released status, either the Order is confirmed or not. Currently, there is no way where continuous allocation will ignore any line which is less than released status. If an order line is released against future inventory, continuous allocation will transfer reservation to any other supply, only if specific PO/ASN details are present on the order line. Orders released against future inventory with no specific PO/ASN details can lead to over allocation. Refer Forward and Backward Transfer for details. Continuous Allocation Engine Continuous allocation works at the line level whenever demand/supply changes for an item. Reallocation is done only for the line, not for the complete order. Orders in open status will not be eligible for Continuous Allocation. Continuous allocation applies to all orders across order types. There is no way to exclude certain order types in the continuous allocation process. Orders such as Retail Order/BOPIS need to be shipped only from a particular location, continuous allocation will not allocate it from any other location. If continuous allocation is enabled, promising always creates reservation details during first time allocation, irrespective of whether the order is allocated or backordered. In case of backorder, the system does not block inventory but saves reservation with zero quantity. For orders to participate in continuous allocation, reservation details need to be present. Hence, all orders which have a valid ANF config and have tried for allocation at least once will be part of the continuous allocation. Continuous allocation sorts the Reservation detail by Effective rank followed by Latest Release Date(LRD) and by Created timestamp. Continuous Allocation Triggers Continuous Allocation is triggered when availability is changed by either Supply Change or Demand Change. Note: Availability changes because of other events such as capacity getting exhausted or becoming available. Location getting in or out of outages will not trigger continuous allocation. Demand Change Triggers Demand Change Triggers will call Continuous Allocation only if there is a possibility of reallocation. The system checks the priority of incoming demand with existing allocated orders at a particular location and then evaluates whether the continuous allocation is needed or not. Evaluation Check Is Continuous Allocation Needed? Lower Priority order is allocated, and Higher priority order gets created and backordered Yes Lower Priority order is allocated, and Higher priority order gets allocated to PO Yes Higher Priority order is allocated, and Lower priority order gets created and backordered No Supply Change Triggers Supply Change events such as increase/decrease, ETA update, error set/reset either by Supply Event or SupplySync Event will call Continuous Allocation only if there is suboptimal allocation or backorders. The system temporarily blocks Inventory for the complete quantity sent in the supply event. Once the continuous allocation is done, unutilized inventory is freed up. Hence, supply changes are momentarily unavailable for regular allocation until the continuous allocation process is complete. Note: During Continuous Allocation, all order lines for a specific item at a given location are evaluated in order of priority and mapped to eligible supply from supply available at the location. There is no configuration to exclude any specific order line/s based on order type or exclude any supply record based on any supply attribute. Continuous Allocation honors "Ignore Protection Qty" in ANF Source when enabled in fulfillment optimization overrides. Continuous allocation will allocate the orders based on supply type ranking defined in inventory demand type(allocation), if inventory demand type is defined. For example, Rank 1=On Order, Rank 2=In Transit, Rank 3=On Hand Available. In this case, the highest priority order will be allocated to On Order and lower priority orders will be allocated to ASN/On Hand Available. Ineligible Constraints for Continuous Allocation The continuous allocation will consider all view related constraints, scheduling constraints, supply type ranking, and so on. But few ANF configuration listed below will not be considered. Locations eligibility or ranking as per Tiers Prioritize Demand as per Tiers Capacity Check or Override in ANF Source or Tiers Complete Single Source(CSS)/KIT constraints Segmentation Substitution Reapportionment Continuous Allocation for Multiple Organization Set up Continuous Allocation engine will consider reservation details across organizations (within the same active Inventory profile) based on the priority/effective rank. Supply and Demand triggers will perform continuous allocation across all organizations. Multi Org - Sample set up Continuous Allocation Config set up at On Supply trigger On Demand trigger Flavor 1 At the same level where Supply profile is set up Org-US Org-Canada Orders across organizations (within the same supply profile) are reshuffled based on the priority. On Supply Trigger (for example, Org-US), the following orders (across ORGs: USOrg-RegionA & USOrg-RegionB) are reshuffled based on the priority. US Order 1 (P1) - Region A (Org) US Order 4 (P4) - Region B (Org) US Order 2 (P3) - Region A (Org) US Order 3 (P4) - Region B (Org) Orders across organizations (within the same supply profile) are reshuffled based on the priority. On Demand Trigger (for example, CAOrg-RegionC), the following orders (across ORGs: CAOrg-RegionC & CAOrg-RegionD) are reshuffled based on the priority. CA Order 1 (P1) - Region C (Org) CA Order 2 (P2) - Region C (Org) CA Order 4 (P3) - Region D (Org) CA Order 3 (P4) - Region D (Org) Flavor 2 At the same level where Supply profile is set up Org-Brand A Org-Brand B "Brand A - US" and "Brand A - CA" share the same supply. But the participating locations for "Brand A - US" Org would be only US locations and for "Brand A - CA" org would be only CA locations. Two separate ATC views (one for US and CA locations) help achieve this. When a supply trigger happens for Item 1 - US DC then only the Orders in US Org would get reshuffled internally (though Orders from orgs "Brand A - US" & "Brand A - CA" participate in the continuous allocation process). US Order 1 (P1) US Order 2 (P3) CA Order 4 (P2) - Not considered CA Order 3 (P4) - Not considered When demand trigger happen for US org (say Order "US Order 1" got canceled), then the reshuffle would impact only the other Orders in the US Org (though orders from "Brand A - CA" can also participate in the continuous allocation process). Continuous allocation can be supported across all organizations (within the same supply profile) or can be limited to just one organization. There is no option to exclude certain organizations from participating in this process. Support for one organization can be configured under Continuous Allocation Configuration. Option 1 (default): "ContinuousAllocationOrganizations" can be empty (to support continuous allocation across all organizations) Option 2: "ContinuousAllocationOrganizations" can be set to a specific org (to support continuous allocation only for one organization). { "ContinuousAllocationConfigId": "1", "EnableContinuousAllocation": true, "ContinuousAllocationOrganizations": "null OR single org" } Note: Option 2 should only be used when there are no orders captured in other organizations. Transfer reservations will not happen in non-configured Org if orders are captured there. Orders should only be captured in the configured organization. Handle Backorders (Complete/Partial) In case an Order line is completely or partially back ordered, then inventory rise at any location(s) are considered for allocation using continuous allocation process. Note that all locations(s) within the same supply profile would be considered. For the continuous allocation process to get triggered for Orders, reservations need to be available. In the case of complete backorder or partial backorders, a blank reservation is created. For complete backorder - a blank reservation is created for the most optimal location (as per the fulfillment optimization configuration). For example, let's assume DC1 is the most optimal location, then a blank reservation is created for DC1 (requested and allocated units will be zero). Partial backorder: Consider an Order with 10 units and is partially allocated to DC1 (4 units).  Supply rise at DC1 or any other location (within the same supply profile) will trigger continuous allocation for the remaining units. Complete backorder: Consider an Order with 10 units. Supply rise at DC1 or any other location (within the same supply profile) will trigger continuous allocation for the completely backordered lines. Order with Requested Delivery Dates (RDD/LPDD): Consider an Order with 10 units and is partially allocated to DC1 (4 units). Supply rise at DC1 or any other location (within the same supply profile) will trigger continuous allocation for the remaining units and the order will be allocated if it meets RDD/LPDD. When a lower-priority order is allocated and a higher-priority order is back-ordered due to a lack of inventory in the tier. When Continuous Allocation runs, the higher priority order can take inventory from the lower priority orders allocated from the locations defined in the ContinuousAllocationLocationGroup. Forward and Backward Transfer There are certain orders such as Cross-Dock, Merge Orders, STS Orders which need to get allocated only from specific inventory and should not be reallocated to any other supply. For Merge and Ship to Store orders, the initial leg can get allocated to any supply, but all other legs should be allocated only from dedicated PO/ASN supply. Once it is received, forward transfer to a specific supply type should be done. In case of inventory drop or negative receipt, backward transfer or deallocation should be done. For Merge/STS orders, the earliest dates for delivery/pickup legs are always based on the earliest date of merge leg. Whenever PO/ASN is present in the reservation request details, it is the only eligible inventory but not preferred for such orders. Promising should not allocate from any other inventory. If an order is backorder and inventory rises for some other inventory then it should not be allocated. Order is allocated to PO. When PO is received as OnHand supply(OHAS) then the transfer should happen to OHAS for receipt qty. Order is allocated to OHAS but not released. When inventory drops for OHAS, then allocate to any other OnHand supply (maximum of allocated qty) else backorder Note: If cross-dock orders are created first and then specific PO/ASN inventory is bridged into the system, continuous allocation will ensure cross-dock orders are allocated. But if PO/ASN inventory is bridged into the system first and gets allocated to regular orders then continuous allocation will not steal inventory for cross-dock orders. List of Use Cases Note: Continuous Reallocation works as per Effective Rank. The lower the effective rank, the higher will be the priority. In the below example, P1 means Priority 1 order (higher priority), P2 means Priority 2 order (lower priority) S.N Use Case Before Continuous Allocation After Continuous Allocation 1 Orders are allocated to future inventory. If on hand supply becomes available in the same location, existing orders should be reallocated to on hand and future inventory should be exposed to the selling channel P1 order line 10 qty allocated to DC1 - PO1 (Jan 5) = 10 qty Supply increased for DC1 - Onhand = 10 qty P1 order line 10 qty allocated to DC1 - OH = 10 qty Available supply will be DC1 - PO1 (Jan 5) = 10 qty 2 Orders are allocated to future inventory. If there is a change in future inventory in that same location such as quantity or ETA then orders should be reallocated to better PO P1 order line 10 qty allocated to DC1 - PO1 (Jan 5) = 10 qty Available supply is DC1 - PO2 (Jan 6) = 10 qty PO1 supply ETA updated to Jan 10 P1 order line 10 qty allocated to DC1 - PO2 (Jan 6) = 10 qty Available supply will be DC1 - PO1 (Jan 10) = 10 qty 3 Orders are allocated to future inventory. If better PO becomes available in that same location, then orders should be reallocated to better PO P1 order line 10 qty allocated to DC1 - PO1 (Jan 5) = 10 qty Supply increased for DC1 - PO2 (Jan 4) = 10 qty P1 order line 10 qty allocated to DC1 - PO2 (Jan 4) = 10 qty Available supply will be DC1 - PO1 (Jan 5) = 10 qty 4 Orders are created with different priorities based on the customer, order type, requested date, order value, and so on. Irrespective of the time they are created, higher priority orders should always get preference within a location. P2 order line 10 qty allocated to DC1 - OH = 10 qty P1 order line 10 qty allocated to DC1 - PO1 (Jan 5) = 10 qty P2 order line 10 qty allocated to DC1 - PO1 (Jan 5) = 10 qty P1 order line 10 qty allocated to DC1 - OH = 10 qty 5 Orders have requested delivery date. These orders remain in allocated status till the time they need to be released to the fulfillment location to meet the requested date. They should be reevaluated on an ongoing basis in search of better supply in that same location. P1 order line 10 qty with RDD = Jan 15 allocated to DC1 - PO1 (Jan 5) = 10 qty Supply increased for DC1 - PO2 (Jan 20) = 10 qty Supply increased for DC1 - PO3 (Jan 4) = 10 qty P1 order line 10 qty with RDD = Jan 15 allocated to DC1 - PO3 (Jan 4) = 10 qty Available supply will be DC1 - PO1 (Jan 5) = 10 qty , DC1 - PO2 (Jan 20) = 10 qty 6 If there are existing backorders for an item, they should get reallocated first before exposing the inventory to the selling channel. P1 order line 10 qty backordered Supply increased for DC1 - Onhand = 10 qty P1 order line 10 qty allocated to DC1 - OH = 10 qty No Available supply 7 If there is an inventory shortage, higher priority orders should get allocated and lower priority ones should be backordered within a location. P2 order line 10 qty allocated to DC1 - OH = 10 qty P1 order line 10 qty backordered P2 order line 10 qty backordered P1 order line 10 qty allocated to DC1 - OH = 10 qty 8 If an existing order is canceled, an existing lower priority order should get allocated to better supply in that same location. P2 order line 10 qty allocated to DC1 - PO1 (Jan 5) = 10 qty P1 order line 10 qty allocated to DC1 - OH = 10 qty P1 order is canceled P2 order line 10 qty allocated to DC1 - OH = 10 qty Available supply will be DC1 - PO1 (Jan 5) = 10 qty Continuous Allocation Vs Batch ReAllocation Batch ReAllocation Continuous Allocation Based on set frequency (once or twice a day) Near real time ongoing Process Evaluates all allocations based on job criteria Re-Evaluate allocations when demand or supply changes Deallocates and then Reallocates Evaluates and Reallocates, if required Order Level Line Level Inventory is not blocked during the process. Inventory is temporarily blocked during the process. During reallocation, available inventory in all locations is considered. Continuous allocation only happens within one location. Deallocation Grace Period During continuous allocation, Deallocation Grace Period provides you the ability to stop deallocation of orders before the release due to scheduling constraints. There are specific scenarios where deallocation of order can happen just before the release process due to scheduling failure. Let's consider a scenario: Release Condition: current date and time > LRD An order with Item 1 and quantity 1 is scheduled to be released at 5 PM (Allocated) with LRD at 5:00 PM. When continuous allocation runs at 5:05 PM, the order will be deallocated as Current Time (5:05)> LRD (5:00).  In such a scenario, to stop deallocation, the continuous allocation Config parameter "Deallocation Grace Period In Minutes" can be used to delay the deallocation for some minutes. Refer how to configure deallocation grace period for more details. Now, if you set the Deallocation Grace Period In Minutes as 30 mins, Current Time (5:05)> LRD (5:00) + 30 mins (5:30) (Order will not be deallocated due to scheduling constraints) However, if continuous allocation runs at 5:35 PM, the order will be deallocated as Current Time (5:35)> LRD (5:00) + 30 mins (5:30) Lock Allocation Before Release By default, when continuous allocation is enabled, all orders are included in the process. However, specific orders can be excluded from the continuous allocation process after a certain period of time. An order that is initially part of the continuous allocation process can be excluded after a specified period of time without affecting the current allocations. A higher priority order can not steal its allocation as the allocations are locked. This locking allocation before release can occur in two distinct ways: The host system can decide the allocation freeze timeline and pass it to the save order API. Manhattan Active® Omni will honor this timeline during the continuous allocation process. The timeline determines the duration for which the order line can participate in the Continuous Allocation process. After the specified time, the allocation of the order line will no longer be deallocated by higher priority orders during the continuous allocation process. This is driven by an attribute "ContinuousAllocationFreezeDate" passed in the orderline promising Info. The feature can be automated within Manhattan Active® Omni through configuration settings. Users are required to configure the "Hours before Release to lock allocations" parameter in the Continuous Allocation Configuration. This setting allows for the exclusion of an order line from continuous allocation a specified number of hours before the Latest Release Date (LRD). Note: The value “ContinuousAllocationFreezeDate” passed in orderline has a higher preference than the configured value “Hours before Release to lock allocations” Continuous Allocation Configuration. Continuous Allocation Within Location Group (Sort Attribute - Location Rank) The continuous allocation can be set up to operate across locations within a Continuous Allocation Location Group. The locations are manually ranked within the group. If an order line is initially allocated to a suboptimal location (not the rank-1 location), there is an opportunity to reallocate to a better optimal location based on changes in demand and supply. This process continues until the allocations are either released or assigned to the most optimal location. In this context, optimal locations take precedence over optimal supply types in the allocation demand type. Example 1: If a location group has the following locations, DC1: Rank-1 Location DC2: Rank-2 Location If an order is allocated to DC2 due to the unavailability of inventory at DC1, when the inventory becomes available at DC1, the continuous allocation will be triggered to allocate the order to DC1. Example 2: If a location group has the following locations, DC1: Rank-1 Location DC2: Rank-2 Location If a priority 2(P2) order is allocated to DC1, and a priority 1(P1) order is allocated to DC2 due to the unavailability of inventory at DC1, when the continuous allocation is triggered, the P1 order will be allocated to DC1 and P2 order to DC2. Refer here for more details on how to configure continuous allocation within a location group. Continuous Allocation Within Location Group (Sort Attribute - Supply Type) The continuous allocation can be set up to operate across locations within a Continuous Allocation Location Group. The locations are manually ranked within the group. If an order line is initially allocated to a suboptimal supply(as per the ranking configured in Demand Type), there is an opportunity to reallocate to a better supply type based on changes in demand and supply. This process continues until the allocations are either released or assigned to the most optimal supply type. In this context, supply type takes precedence over the optimal location. Example : If a location group has the following location ranking, DC1: Rank 1 DC2: Rank 2 DC3: Rank 3 Supply Picture : The details of the supply picture are as follows, with the current date considered as September 1st, 2024. OH : 10 Qty DC1 : ASN ETA - 15th September 2024 -10 Qty DC2 : PO ETA - 28th September 2024 - 10 Qty DC3 : ASN ETA - 26th September 2024 - 10 Qty Demand Type Ranking : The ranking of demand types follows this order: On Hand, ASN, PO. If an order is created with 50 quantities with a Requested Delivery Date, the allocation will happen first from RDD, and then from the LPDD as per the demand type ranking in the following order : OH -10 Qty DC 1 : ASN ETA - 15th September 2024 -10 Qty DC3 : ASN ETA - 26th September 2024 - 10 Qty DC2 : PO ETA - 28th September 2024 - 10 Qty Refer here for more details on how to configure continuous allocation within a location group by supply type. Note:If the Delivery Lead Time is configured and the Sort Attribute is set to Supply Type, Continuous Allocation in the RDD loop will occur based on Location Rank, while in the LPDD loop, it will occur based on Supply Type. Note: Location ranking should be set up within the Continuous Allocation Location Group to use Continuous Allocation by Supply Type. It is recommended to assign the same rank to all locations, as ranking becomes irrelevant when allocation is based on supply type. Hold Inventory for Backorder This attribute is used to hold inventory for backorders at the item location level and to release any remaining inventory immediately during the supply event. When this feature is enabled, if an order with Item A at DC1 has 10 units backordered and a PO for 100 units of Item A is received at DC1, it will only block the 10 backordered units, showing 90 units as available. If the feature is not enabled, the entire 100 units will be blocked). Refer here for configuration. Examples - Hold inventory only for backorders Reshuffle request (Used for back orders) - Let's say the two orders below are backorder Order 1 Line 1 Item A DC1 10 Order 2 Line 1 Item A DC2 10 The initial inventory assumed is 0 units in "Item A" in "DC1", "DC2", "DC3", "DC4". The below supply event scenarios show how it will behave  when this feature is enabled during the time interval configured for Continuous Allocation. Item Location Inventory blocked - before Inventory blocked - Now (feature enabled) Available Quantity - Before Available Quantity ( feature enabled) Adjustment (100 Qty) Item A DC1 100 10 0 90 Item A DC2 100 10 0 90 Item A DC3 100 0 0 100 Item A DC4 100 0 0 100 Adjustment with Replace(50 Qty) Item A DC1 50 10 50 40 Item A DC2 50 10 50 40 Item A DC3 50 0 50 50 Item A DC4 50 0 50 50 Item Location Inventory blocked - before Inventory blocked - Now (feature enabled) Available Quantity - Before Available Quantity (feature enabled) PO -100 Qty Item A DC1 100 10 0 90 Item A DC2 100 10 0 90 PO Update Qty to 200 Item A DC1 200 10 0 190 Item A DC2 200 10 0 190 PO Update ETA Item A DC1 100 10 0 90 Item A DC2 100 10 0 90 Item Location Inventory blocked - before Inventory blocked - Now (feature enabled) Available Quantity - Before Available Quantity (feature enabled) ASN-100 Qty Item A DC1 100 10 0 90 Item A DC2 100 10 0 90 ASN Update Qty to 200 Item A DC1 200 10 0 190 Item A DC2 200 10 0 190 ASN Update ETA Item A DC1 100 10 0 90 Item A DC2 100 10 0 90 Item Location Inventory blocked - before Inventory blocked - Now (feature enabled) Available Quantity - Before Available Quantity (feature enabled) PO to On Hand Receipt - 100 QTY And PO Allocated Quantity = 10 Item A DC1 100 20 (10 units allocated from PO and 10 units sitting in backorder) 0 80 Item A DC2 100 20 (10 units allocated from PO and 10 units sitting in backorder) 0 80 Item A DC3 100 0 0 100 Item A DC4 100 0 0 100 Continuous Allocation of Kit Items Continuous Allocation support has been extended to the kits item, allowing the kit item to reshuffle within the location and across the location whenever there is a demand change or a supply change. In the below examples we will consider one kit of dining set is composed of one table and four chairs. Example 1 : Let's consider the supply picture as : AtlantaDC : 5 Qty on hand available(OHA) comprising [Table - 5 and Chair - 20] AtlantaDC : 5 Qty purchase order(PO) comprising [Table - 5 and Chair - 20] Upon creating the kit orders, the details along with their priority levels are as follows: Order 1 (P2) : Dining Set - 5 Qty (Allocated : 5 Qty OHA) Order 2(P3) : Dining Set - 5 Qty (Allocated : 5 Qty PO) If there’s an increase in demand for dining sets and an order with higher priority is placed: Order 3(P1) : Dining Set - 2 Qty (Backordered as there is no inventory) After the continuous allocation process runs, the order allocation is updated based on priority: Order 3(P1) : Dining Set - 2 Qty (Allocated : 2 Qty OHA) Order 1 (P2) : Dining Set - 5 Qty (Allocated : 3 Qty OHA and 2 Qty PO) Order 2(P3) : Dining Set - 5 Qty (Partially Allocated : 3 Qty PO) Example 2 : Let's consider the supply picture as : AtlantaDC : 5 Qty on hand available(OHA) comprising [Table - 5 and Chair - 20] AtlantaDC : 5 Qty Purchase Order(PO) comprising [Table - 5 and Chair - 40] Upon creating the kit orders, the details along with their priority levels are as follows: Order 1 (P2) : DiningSet - 5 Qty (Allocated : 5 Qty OHA) Order 2(P1) : DiningSet - 8 Qty (Partially Allocated : 5 Qty PO) When there’s a rise in the supply of 5 tables, and after the continuous allocation process runs, the allocation is reshuffled based on the order priority: Order 2(P1) : DiningSet - 8 Qty (Allocated : 5 Qty OHA and 3 Qty PO) Order 1 (P2) : DiningSet - 5 Qty (Allocated : 5 Qty OHA) Note : Continuous Allocation Within Location Group (Sort Attribute - Supply Type) is not supported for kit items Configuration How to Enable Continuous Allocation Continuous allocation can be enabled using Continuous Allocation Configuration UI or by invoking the REST end point ({{url}}/inventory/api/inventory/continuousAllocationConfig/save) { "ContinuousAllocationConfigId": "1", "EnableContinuousAllocation": true, "ContinuousAllocationLocationGroupId": "LG-01", "DeallocationGracePeriodInMinutes": null } This needs to be enabled at the Organization where the Supply profile is set up. How to Configure Continuous Allocation Within Location Group - By Location Rank Continuous allocation location group - By Location Rank can be enabled using Continuous Allocation Configuration UI or by invoking the REST endpoint. Note that the continuous allocation location group should be selected in the fulfillment optimization rule. ({{url}}/inventory/api/inventory/continuousAllocationConfig/save) { "ContinuousAllocationConfigId": "1", "EnableContinuousAllocation": true, "Attempt to select a preferred location": true, "SortAttribute" : "Location Rank", "DeallocationGracePeriodInMinutes": null } If "SortAttribute" is null, still continuous allocation within a location group will run based on location ranking. How to Configure Continuous Allocation Within Location Group - By Supply Type Continuous allocation location group - By Supply Type can be enabled using Continuous Allocation Configuration by supply type UI or by invoking the REST endpoint. ({{url}}/inventory/api/inventory/continuousAllocationConfig/save) { "ContinuousAllocationConfigId": "1", "EnableContinuousAllocation": true, "Attempt to select a preferred location": true, "SortAttribute" : "Supply Type", "DeallocationGracePeriodInMinutes": null } Continuous allocation group with location ranking can be configured on the Continuous Allocation Location Group UI. See the section below to enable this using API. {{url}}/inventory/api/inventory/continuousAllocationLocationGroup/save { "LocationGroupId": "EastZone", "LocationGroupName": "EastZone001", "ContinuousAllocationLocationGroupDetail": [ { "LocationId": "ecomorg:AtlantaDC", "Rank": "1" }, { "LocationId": "ecomorg:SanJoseDC", "Rank": "2" }, { "LocationId": "ecomorg:T1945", "Rank": "3" } ] } Note: A new location can be added to the location group and the existing location can be updated or deleted. A location can only be part of one location group If a location is part of more than one location group, if any allocation happens from that location, CA only runs within that location, not in any of the location groups. The ranks of locations in the location group do not need to be unique (all vendors can be equally ranked in a location group). If any two or more locations have the same rank, the locations are sorted based on alphabetic order. Rank cannot be null. If any demand/Supply change happens for the same ranked locations, Continuous allocation will not disturb the existing allocations and will not reshuffle across locations in the location group. Continuous Allocation will run in the common locations between the ATC view and Continuous Allocation Location group Id. Scheduling constraints is applicable to the location present in the location groups. Example: In ATC view: Loc-1, Loc-2, ----, Loc-10 In Location Group: Loc-6, Loc-7, ----, Loc-12 Continuous Allocation will optimize allocations with Loc-6 to Loc-10. Here, location ranking in the continuous location group is preferred over supply rank present in the allocation demand type. For example, if an order line is initially allocated to the on-hand supply of sub-optimal locations, and if inventory rise (PO or ASN) happens in optimal locations, then the order line will be reshuffled to an optimal location. How to hold inventory only for backorder during continuous allocation This feature can be enabled using Continuous Allocation Configuration UI or by invoking the REST end point ({{url}}/inventory/api/inventory/continuousAllocationConfig/save { "ContinuousAllocationConfigId": "1", "EnableContinuousAllocation": true, "HoldInventoryOnlyForBackorders": true, "DeallocationGracePeriodInMinutes": null } How to Configure Deallocation Grace Period The Deallocation Grace Period can be configured on the Continuous Allocation Configuration UI or by using the API. Sample Continuous Allocation{{url}}/inventory/api/inventory/continuousAllocationConfig/save { "ContinuousAllocationConfigId": "1", "EnableContinuousAllocation": true, "ContinuousAllocationLocationGroupId": null, "ContinuousAllocationOrganizations": null, "DeallocationGracePeriodInMinutes": x } How to Configure Lock Allocation Before Release The Lock allocation before release can be configured on the Continuous Allocation Configuration UI or by using the API. {{url}}/inventory/api/inventory/continuousAllocationConfig/save { "ContinuousAllocationConfigId": "1", "EnableContinuousAllocation": true, "RestrictContiniousAllocationLeadTime": 10 } Implementation Flavors NA Troubleshooting Unable to transfer allocation for orders captured in a non-configured Continuous Allocation organization Actions: Stop Continuous Allocation { "ContinuousAllocationConfigId": "1", "EnableContinuousAllocation": false, "ContinuousAllocationOrganizations": "null OR single org" } Run Reallocation for those orders which have discrepancies Unable to transfer allocation for cross-dock orders captured in a non-configured Continuous Allocation organization Actions: Stop Continuous Allocation { "ContinuousAllocationConfigId": "1", "EnableContinuousAllocation": false, "ContinuousAllocationOrganizations": "null OR single org" } Update the reservation matches with the appropriate supply types of the selected orders and save them OR Reimport the cross-dock orders with the latest supply types Related Articles Mass AllocateImmediate REST APIs and User ExitsOverviewPrioritization