# Overview

**Permalink:** contact-center-ui-extensibility-overview
**Content Length:** 5,568 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:39:35.915086

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Administrator Tools&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan ProActive®&rsaquo;&rsaquo;User Interface Extensibility&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Contact Center UI Extensibility ››Overview Overview UI ExtensibilityAccessing ProActive for Contact CenterImplementing Extension PointsPreviewing Extension PointsDeploying Extension Points to ProductionTypes of UI Extensions UI Extensibility The Contact Center UI is designed to support various customer-specific requirements by extending the base user interface. This capability is enabled via&nbsp;extension hooks provided&nbsp;in pre-defined locations of the base UI. The different extensibility options include adding buttons, fields, labels, and custom&nbsp;panels.&nbsp; Note: The look and feel of the extended fields may not match with the base fields. However, it is possible with the enhancement of the framework.&nbsp; Accessing ProActive for Contact Center Use the ProActive menu option to access ProActive. Refer Manhattan ProActive for more details Implementing Extension Points The Contact Center UI can be displayed in &quot;Developer Mode&quot; to enable you to view possible extension points and add extensions. To navigate to the Contact Center in Developer Mode, use the application menu to access ProActive. Once an Extension Pack is added in ProActive, navigate to the UI Extensions &gt; Contact Center, which launches Developer Mode for the extension pack ID and version number. Follow the UI prompts along with the implementation details below to add extension points. Upon clicking &#39;Add&#39; in the UI, extension points are&nbsp;displayed on the right side in the &#39;Available Extensions&#39; section. Saved extensions can be deleted within this panel. Upon clicking &#39;Save&#39;, extension points are saved in the database for this extension pack. Previewing Extension Points When in Developer Mode, use the &#39;Preview&#39; toggle at the top of the Contact Center UI to preview all extension points for the given extension pack. Deploying Extension Points to Production Follow the instructions in the ProActive guides&nbsp;to test extension points in staging and export. After importing an extension pack into production, you can preview the changes in Developer Mode before deploying them in production. Types of UI Extensions Field Extensions Buttons Base Component&nbsp; iFrames Left Navigation Panel Patterns Command Router