# Contact Customer Configuration

**Permalink:** contact-customer-configuration
**Content Length:** 5,532 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:36:03.594882

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Inventory & Fulfillment&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Order Fulfillment&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Contact Customer ››Contact Customer Configuration Contact Customer Configuration Reason CodesStore Fulfillment ParametersAllow Listing Of Ready For Pickup Orders In Contact CustomerEnable Click to E-mail CustomerEnable Click to Call CustomerUIs and Entities Reason Codes Reason codes with reason type &#39;Cancel&#39; must be defined in Store Fulfillment Reasons UI to report cancellations after a customer is contacted. Fulfillment type field is not used for cancellation and hence it can remain &lsquo;null&#39;. Store Fulfillment Parameters The following parameters can be configured to control the filters shown in Contact Customer. Allow Listing Of Ready For Pickup Orders In Contact Customer This parameter controls the inclusion of an additional&nbsp;filter &#39;All Ready For Pickup&#39; in the contact customer. If the parameter is set to true, the filter is listed and applied by default. When this filter is applied, all the ready for pickup orders are listed irrespective of whether they have&nbsp;expired or not. By default, this parameter is set to false. Enable Click to E-mail Customer This parameter controls the ability to contact the customer via email exchange upon clicking on the hyperlink of the email address of the customer displayed on order details of contact customer. Upon clicking the link, the device&#39;s default e-mail application is opened. By default, this parameter is set to false.&nbsp;This functionality is also governed by a permission. See the Store Fulfillment UI resources for more information. Enable Click to Call Customer This parameter controls the ability to contact the customer via phone call/message&nbsp;upon clicking on the hyperlink of the phone number of the customer displayed on order details of contact customer.&nbsp;Upon clicking the link, the device&#39;s default phone application is opened. By default, this parameter is set to false.&nbsp;This functionality is also governed by a permission. See the Store Fulfillment UI resources for more information. UIs and Entities The configuration UIs mentioned in this document are&nbsp;listed in the following table,&nbsp;along with information to&nbsp;navigate&nbsp;to the API documentation: UI Name Component Group Seed Data Present? Seed Data Profile Store Fulfillment Parameters Fulfillment FulfillmentParameters Services Yes Base Store Fulfillment Reasons Fulfillment&nbsp; FulfillmentReasons Services Yes Base