# Store - Controlled Rollout

**Permalink:** controlledrolloutripple
**Content Length:** 8,442 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:39:10.824335

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Administrator Tools&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store ››Store - Controlled Rollout Store - Controlled Rollout OverviewHow Ripple WorksRipple ConfigurationClient Side&nbsp;Version Check Overview Manhattan Active&reg; Platform&nbsp;allows for better coordinated and controlled rollouts of the quarterly releases to ensure a smoother upgrade process. With this capability (available from 24.1) referred to as &quot;Ripple&quot;, features of new quarterly releases are made available in a phased manner. It can be activated for a few store locations&nbsp;and then activated in other stores with a pre-defined gap between the rollouts. Additionally, the rollout will also depend on having the right client side&nbsp;version (store application&nbsp;version) to invoke the right backend changes irrespective of the server side code drop version. &nbsp; How Ripple Works When a new quarterly release is enabled&nbsp;for a stack, Manhattan Active&reg;&nbsp;Customers may choose to make it effective across the entire store network at once or prefer to roll it out over a span of a few days. This&nbsp;new capability allows a customer to pilot the new release&nbsp;across a few of their stores&nbsp;before rolling it out to a wider network. This behavior of gradually rolling out the new releases&nbsp;is achieved using the notion of Ripples (&ldquo;small waves&rdquo; of features&nbsp;being rolled out). A Ripple is defined by a label&nbsp;and an integer representing the offset value in days from the timestamp when the new quarterly release&nbsp;becomes available for the&nbsp;stack. Each store location can be optionally labeled with anyone of&nbsp;the&nbsp;3 pre-defined ripples. Label Offset in Days &nbsp;What it means Pilot 0 The new features are available immediately as soon as they are made available for the stack (Prod/Stage environment) Intermediate 3 The new features are available after 3 days for stores labeled as &#39;Intermediate&#39; Rollout 7 The new features are available after 7 days for stores labeled as &#39;Rollout&#39;. When a location is not labeled with any of these ripple labels, it will be considered as &#39;Rollout&#39;. If your organization structure involves many brands&nbsp; and countries, we recommend&nbsp;choosing&nbsp;stores across different brands&nbsp;for each of the&nbsp; &#39;pilot&#39; and &#39;intermediate&#39; ripples. An example: Assume that the store #1625 is labeled with the Ripple &#39;pilot&#39; whereas the store #1749 is labeled with the Ripple &#39;intermediate&#39;. Manhattan Active&reg; Platform releases 24.1&nbsp;and is&nbsp;applied to the customer stack at t0 (example: Jan 10, 2024&nbsp;at 8 AM). In this case, the transactions that run in the context of store #1625 will start&nbsp;using the new release features starting t0 + 0 days (i.e., Jan 10, 2024&nbsp;at 8 AM ). However, the transactions that run in the context of store #1749 cannot start using the new release features until after t0 + 3 days (i.e., Jan 13, 2024&nbsp;at 8 AM ). Important Note:&nbsp;The activation of functional features is always achieved through the specific activation of corresponding business configurations. The rollout process mentioned above&nbsp;is an additional layer of implementation, complementing the configuration activation. It&#39;s crucial to note that if the configuration is not enabled, the features remain inactive, regardless of the ripple label. Ripple Configuration Each store location can be marked with a specific label from the &quot;Location Release Offset Assignment&quot;&nbsp;UI. Steps: 1. Login to the application as system administrator. Usually the userId will be systemadmin@system.com 2. Navigate to Proactive in Omnifacade landing screen. 3. Once you&nbsp;are in proactive,&nbsp;navigate to Location Release Offset Assignment UI 3. Enter the store location and choose the release offset for that store 4. Save and Finish If you have configured a few store locations with ripple label, the store locations&nbsp;that are not marked with any label will be treated automatically as &#39;Rollout&#39; giving them an offset of 7 days for new feature enablement. If none of the store locations are labeled, the ripple feature itself will not be enabled and the new quarterly release will be available in all the stores. This is equivalent to not using the controlled rollout mechanism. Client Side&nbsp;Version Check In addition to orchestrating a controlled rollout within the store network with Ripple, the Manhattan Active&reg; Platform aligns the new release behavior with the corresponding client-side (Store App) version, thereby ensuring a seamless integration with older store application versions. Consider a scenario where a store application operates on version 234.x.y, signifying its&nbsp;quarterly release as 23.4. Now, envision that your tech stack is elevated, introducing quarterly release 24.1 on the server side. In this context, the Manhattan Active&reg; Platform ensures that the new features associated with release 24.1 remain dormant for applications utilizing the prior quarterly release (23.4) version. This deliberate synchronization between release behavior and client-side versions upholds better backward compatibility.