# Convenience Pack

**Permalink:** convenience-pack
**Content Length:** 22,381 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:37:39.924335

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process &amp; Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Replenishment&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Factors affecting SOQ ››Convenience Pack Convenience Pack Previous&nbsp;I&nbsp;Next OverviewProcess FlowConfigurationsHow to set up a Convenience Pack?Convenience Pack with Threshold - Max Extra DaysConvenience Pack with Threshold - Max Carrying CostUIs and EntitiesServicesTroubleshootingRelated Articles Overview A convenience pack refers to an order size tailored to meet your company&#39;s specific receiving requirements for a particular item. For instance, if your usual purchase involves buying an item by the case, but it proves more practical to receive it by the pallet, a convenience pack allows you to place orders in larger quantities rather than purchasing multiple smaller units. Certain items consistently maintain high volume or experience periodic spikes due to factors like seasonality or fluctuations in demand. Handling such items can become laborious and expensive if the buying multiples are small compared to their SOQs. To illustrate, consider a retailer who typically purchases one-gallon water in cases of six units. In the summer, demand surges, and standard orders approach pallet quantities of 48 cases (288 units). Instead of ordering 47 or 50 cases, resulting in partial pallets that could lead to damage or necessitate additional time for processing receipts, it might be more economically sensible to order in full pallet quantities. &nbsp; Process Flow Set up Convenience Pack: Refer How to set up Convenience pack for more details Use Convenience Pack or Optimize Order Pack flow: When Order Pack optimization is enabled for a specific Item and Location, follow the Order Pack Optimization flow. If Order Pack optimization is disabled, proceed with using the Convenience Pack. Evaluate Minimum Pack (Round up): Convert Suggested Order Quantity (SOQ) to Convenience Pack Unit of Measure (UOM). Converted SOQ = FLOOR(SOQ / (Convenience Pack * Ratio to Base UOM)) Verify if the Converted SOQ (Convenience Pack UOM) exceeds the Configured Minimum Pack. If yes, round up the SOQ to the next Convenience Pack. If not, it indicates that the minimum pack requirement is still not met, and need to determine if the SOQ should be rounded up to the next Convenience Pack based on the specified threshold. Convenience Pack UOM Ratio to Base Convenience Pack Units Minimum Pack (Round up) Threshold - Max Extra Days Threshold - Max Carrying Cost SOQ Converted SOQ Meets Min Pack Threshold? Final SOQ 1 CASE 15 15 2 null null 140 9 Yes 150 1 PALLET 30 30 2 null null 140 4 Yes 150 1 CASE 15 15 10 null null 140 9 No 140 1 CASE 15 15 10 10 null 140 9 No Go to next step Evaluate Threshold (Maximum Extra Days or Maximum Carrying Cost): The threshold comes into play when a retailer is open to ordering additional units, but only up to a specific limit to ensure cost-effectiveness. Cost-effectiveness is assessed based on: Additional days of supply Cost associated with carrying the extra inventory Compute Extra Units: Calculate Extra Units as the rounded-up SOQ minus the Original SOQ. Extra Units = Rounded up SOQ - Original SOQ Threshold - Maximum Extra Days: Verify whether the Extra Units (measured in days) fall within the configured threshold for the maximum extra days. Refer How to configure Max Extra Days for details. If yes, round up the SOQ to the next convenience pack. If not, maintain the original SOQ. Convenience Pack UOM Ratio to Base Convenience Pack Units Minimum Pack (Round up) Threshold - Max Extra Days Threshold - Max Carrying Cost SOQ Converted SOQ Meets Min Pack Threshold? Extra Units Extra Units (Days) Meets Max Extra Days Threshold Final SOQ 1 CASE 15 15 10 9 null 140 9 No 150-140 (10) 1 Yes 150 8 CASE 15 120 10 10 null 140 1 No 240-140 (100) 10 Yes 240 8 CASE 15 120 10 5 null 140 1 No 100 10 No 140 Threshold - Maximum Carrying Cost: Compute the new carrying cost. New Carrying cost = Extra Units * Carrying Cost * (Avg Purchase Price * 50%) Verify whether the new carrying cost fall within the configured threshold for the maximum carrying cost. Refer How to configure Max Carrying Cost for details. If yes, round up the SOQ to the next convenience pack. If not, maintain the original SOQ. Consider Carrying cost = 0.25. Avg purchase price = $10 Convenience Pack UOM Ratio to Base Convenience Pack Units Minimum Pack (Round up) Threshold - Max Extra Days Threshold - Max Carrying Cost SOQ Converted SOQ Meets Min Pack Threshold? Extra Units New Carrying Cost Meets Max Carrying Cost Threshold Final SOQ 1 CASE 15 15 10 null 13 140 9 No 150-140 (10) 12.5 Yes 150 8 CASE 15 120 10 null 150 140 1 No 240-140 (100) 125 Yes 240 8 CASE 15 120 10 null 100 140 1 No 100 125 No 140 &nbsp; Note: Users should not set a convenience pack value LESS THAN the Buying Multiple, or the system will probably be round by that convenience pack. Configurations How to set up a Convenience Pack? To use the convenience pack feature, UOMs should be set up with conversion to base UOM. In the below example, Items can be received in terms of CASE or PALLET, so UOMs should be set up for Case and Pallet with a conversion factor to base UOM . In this example, base UOM is EACHES. One Case = 15 Eaches One Pallet = 30 Eaches {{url}}/itemlocation/api/itemlocation/itemLocation/save { &nbsp; &quot;ItemId&quot;: &quot;Item1&quot;, &nbsp; &quot;LocationId&quot;: &quot;Store1&quot;, &nbsp; &quot;ItemLocationPackagingUnitOfMeasure&quot;: [ &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;PackagingUomId&quot;: &quot;2&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;description&quot;: &quot;CASE&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;PackagingUOM&quot;: &quot;CASE&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;RatioToBaseUOM&quot;: 15 &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; }, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;PackagingUomId&quot;: &quot;3&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;description&quot;: &quot;PALLET&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;PackagingUOM&quot;: &quot;PALLET&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;RatioToBaseUOM&quot;: 30 &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; } &nbsp; ] } Convenience pack can be set up as part of Item Location with Threshold as Max Extra Days or Max Carrying Cost. Refer to the API below for details. Convenience Pack with Threshold - Max Extra Days {{url}}/itemlocation/api/itemlocation/itemLocation/save { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ConveniencePackQty&quot;: 1, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ConveniencePackQtyUOM&quot;: &quot;CASE&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;MinPacksToAlwaysRoundUp&quot;: 5, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;MaxExtraCarryingCost&quot;: null, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;MaxExtraDays&quot;: 10, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ItemId&quot;: &quot;Item1&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;LocationId&quot;: &quot;Store1&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;UseOrderPackOptimization&quot;: false } Convenience Pack with Threshold - Max Carrying Cost {{url}}/itemlocation/api/itemlocation/itemLocation/save { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ConveniencePackQty&quot;: 1, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ConveniencePackQtyUOM&quot;: &quot;CASE&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;MinPacksToAlwaysRoundUp&quot;: 5, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;MaxExtraCarryingCost&quot;: 100, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;MaxExtraDays&quot;: null, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ItemId&quot;: &quot;Item1&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;LocationId&quot;: &quot;Store1&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;UseOrderPackOptimization&quot;: false } &nbsp; Note: If both Max Extra Days and Max Extra Carrying Cost are configured, then Max Extra Days takes precedence. UIs and Entities The configuration UIs mentioned in this document are listed in the following table,&nbsp;along with information to&nbsp;navigate&nbsp;to the API documentation. UI Name Component Group Seed Data Present? Seed Data Profile &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Services The&nbsp;APIs listed in the following table are referenced in this document. Refer to the API documentation for additional details on&nbsp;each service. Service Component Group Service Endpoint &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Troubleshooting NA Related Articles Order Pack OptimizationLead TimeOrder Point AdjustmentBuying MultipleManual MaximumManual Minimum Minimum Purchase QuantityCommitted QuantityReview CyclePlanned Demand