# Create Cycle Count

**Permalink:** createcyclecount
**Content Length:** 16,637 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:36:29.712443

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Inventory & Fulfillment&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Inventory Management ››Create Cycle Count Store-Initiated Cycle Count OverviewCount CreationInventory in ErrorNegative InventoryFilter CriteriaItemsExceptionsCustom Filter CriteriaSample UI configuration for adding two extended attributes&nbsp;to the filter criteria:TroubleshootingServices Overview Maintaining inventory accuracy is one of the biggest challenges retailers face regularly.&nbsp;Administrative&nbsp;errors, shrinkage and stock movements can cause discrepancies between the expected inventory level tracked by the&nbsp;inventory&nbsp;management&nbsp;system and the actual store inventory. The ability for store personnel to count merchandise on a regular basis is key to resolving these discrepancies and correcting the inventory levels. Store Inventory Management (SIM) allows stores to create cycle counts on the fly as an alternative or supplement to corporate-initiated cycle counts. Once created, store-initiated cycle counts are counted by associates in the same manner as corporate-initiated&nbsp;counts. During execution, an indicator in the outbound message&nbsp;differentiates store-initiated counts from corporate-initiated counts. Note: The count ID for store-initiated cycle counts starts with the prefix &quot;CC&quot; followed by the&nbsp;current time (17 digits). For example: CC70302470941591888.&nbsp;The same prefix should not be used by external systems when generating corporate cycle counts to prevent count ID conflicts. Count Creation Store users can create cycle counts using the methods listed below. The ability to create a store-initiated cycle count is controlled by permissions. Refer to the&nbsp;Store Inventory UI Resources&nbsp;page for additional information. Inventory in Error A cycle count can be created for all items that are marked in&nbsp;error in the inventory system. A&nbsp;preview of the matching items with total item count is shown before the user is asked to submit the count creation request. A maximum of 1000 unique items are allowed per cycle count. If&nbsp;the number of matching items exceeds 1000,&nbsp;a&nbsp;warning message is displayed on the UI. If the user proceeds, the count is created with the first 1000 matching jtems. Once the store completes the count for first 1000 items, the user can create another count to pick up the next batch of 1000 matching items. Negative Inventory A cycle count can be created for items that have negative inventory in the inventory system. A&nbsp;preview of the matching items with total item count is shown before the user is asked to submit the count creation request. A maximum of 1000 unique items are allowed per cycle count. If&nbsp;the number of matching items exceeds 1000,&nbsp;a&nbsp;warning message is displayed on the UI. If the user proceeds, the count is created with the first 1000 matching jtems. Once the store completes the count for first 1000 items, the user can create another count to pick up the next batch of 1000 matching items. Filter Criteria A cycle count can be created by&nbsp;filtering on an item&#39;s store department, product class and style attributes. The department and product class values are listed in drop downs, and the style is key entered. A&nbsp;preview of the matching items with total item count is shown before the user is asked to submit the count creation request. A maximum of 1000 unique items are allowed per cycle count. If&nbsp;the number of matching items exceeds 1000,&nbsp;a&nbsp;warning message is displayed on the UI. If the user proceeds, the count is created with the first 1000 matching jtems. Once the store completes the count for first 1000 items, the user can create another count to pick up the next batch of 1000 matching items. Custom filter criteria can be added. Refer to the Custom Filter Criteria section for additional information. Note: Creating a cycle count using&nbsp;filter criteria is supported for retailers with up to 2 million item records and 10&nbsp;million item location records. For larger volumes, work with the Manhattan Services team to test and&nbsp;optimize the search criteria. Items The last method to create a count is to scan (or manual enter) item barcodes.&nbsp; Exceptions User can remove individual items from a count while reviewing the count preview.&nbsp;A maximum of&nbsp;25 items can be removed per count. The ability to remove is based on permissions. Custom Filter Criteria Retailers can add up to two custom filters to the by filter criteria using extensibility. The filters can&nbsp;correspond to existing base attributes or extended attributes.&nbsp;Refer to ProActive documentation to learn more about adding custom attributes. Note: Custom attributes can be added whose data type is Text, ShortText or LongText. Custom attributes must have a Text entry UI widget, and only support the&nbsp;equal (=) operator.&nbsp; Steps to add extended item attributes to the filter criteria: Create extended attributes for the Item&nbsp;entity in the Item component. Create extended attributes for the Item entity in the Inventory component. Work with Manhattan to evaluate whether a custom index should be added for the extended attribute for&nbsp;performance reasons. Ensure that the data from the extended&nbsp;attribute&nbsp;flows from the item component to the Item entity in the inventory component. Add the new attribute to the&nbsp;UI extensibility metadata. Note: After adding custom attributes, reach out to the Manhattan Services team to run a performance test. If necessary, a custom index tmay be added to the Item table. Steps to add&nbsp;additional base item attributes to the filter criteria: Configure the UI metadata with the base attributes. Sample UI configuration for adding two extended attributes&nbsp;to the filter criteria: { &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;ScreenId&quot;: &quot;sim-create-cycle-count-criteria&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;Extensions&quot;: [ &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; { &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;ExtensionId&quot;: &quot;sim.create-cycle-count.filter-criteria&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;ExtensionDetail&quot;: [ &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; { &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;ExtensionType&quot;: &quot;field&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;ExtensionProperties&quot;: { &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;Label&quot;: &quot;Custom Field 1&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;Sequence&quot;: 1, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;Field&quot;: { &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;Align&quot;: &quot;column&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;Type&quot;: &quot;text&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;Editable&quot;: true, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;Required&quot;: true, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;DefaultJSONObject&quot;: &quot;extensionForm&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;DefaultJSONField&quot;: &quot;InputTextFieldAttribute1&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;JSONObject&quot;: &quot;extensionForm&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;JSONField&quot;: &quot;InputTextFieldAttribute1&quot; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; } &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; }, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;EPID&quot;: &quot;EX01&quot; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; }, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; { &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;ExtensionType&quot;: &quot;field&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;ExtensionProperties&quot;: { &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;Label&quot;: &quot;Custom Field 2&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;Sequence&quot;: 2, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;Field&quot;: { &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;Align&quot;: &quot;column&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;Type&quot;: &quot;text&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;Editable&quot;: true, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;Required&quot;: true, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;DefaultJSONObject&quot;: &quot;extensionForm&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;DefaultJSONField&quot;: &quot;extend::InputTextFieldAttribute2&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;JSONObject&quot;: &quot;extensionForm&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;JSONField&quot;: &quot;extend::InputTextFieldAttribute2&quot; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; } &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; }, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;EPID&quot;: &quot;EX01&quot; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; } &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; ] &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; } &nbsp; &nbsp; ] } Troubleshooting Issue Troubleshooting Tip Data from the Item entity in the Item component is not updated to the item entity in the Inventory component Check the outbound message type &quot;ItemEventQueueMSGType&quot;&nbsp;is available in the custom profile in the item component. ItemEventQueueMSGType/queue.ItemEventQueue Check the inbound message type &quot;ItemEventQueueMSGType&quot;&nbsp;is available in the custom profile in the inventory component. ItemEventQueueMSGType/ queue.ItemEventQueue Services The&nbsp;APIs listed in the following table are referenced in this document. Refer to the API documentation for additional details on&nbsp;each service. Service Component Group Service End Point Create Count Search Item SIM Count Request /sim/api/sim/countRequest/createCount/items/search Create Store Initiated Count Request SIM Count Request /sim/api/sim/storeInitiated/countRequest/create &nbsp;