# Create Customer Order

**Permalink:** createcusorder
**Content Length:** 19,751 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:35:24.851411

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Customer Engagement&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order ››Create Customer Order Customer Orders Customer OrdersCreating Customer OrdersViewing Order StatusOrder DetailsModifying OrdersCanceling OrdersHolding Orders Creating Customer Orders Orders are created when the selected items are added to the shopping cart and the checkout process is completed on the Item Search page. The Customer Order feature enables you to process and complete the order of these selected items. For more information, see Customer&nbsp;Service. To create a customer order, perform the following steps: On the Item Search page, search and select an item. After you add the desired items to the shopping cart and complete the checkout process, the Call Center page that provides the details of the order is displayed.&nbsp; In the Orders Details panel, the order details such as its number, status, type, store number where the order is placed, and payment status are displayed. You can apply promotions, coupons, appeasements at the order level by clicking the respective links. Click the Promotions and Coupons links displayed against each item to apply promotions and coupons at the item level. Click theicon to add instruction and communication notes at&nbsp;order and item level. Click the icon that is next to the Price field of the item to override the item prices. Also, you can add and override the Value Added Service(VAS) charges at the item level. Click the Add more items to the order link to add more items to the customer order. In the Order Total section, click the icon that is next to the Estimated S&H field to override the shipping and handling charges. Enter the required details in the Shipping&nbsp;and Payment tabs. In the Payment tab, after the payment details are complete and the value in the Remaining to Pay field is zero, click&nbsp;the Proceed to Summary button&nbsp;to display the Summary tab. The&nbsp;Summary panel displays the payment details of the order. Click Edit to&nbsp;modify the payment details,&nbsp;if required. To complete the order, click Place Order. A confirmation popup will appear to confirm the placement of the order. Select &#39;Close&#39; and the user will be navigated to the Customer Transactions UI. Viewing Order Status In the left quick access pane of the&nbsp;Customer Engagement&nbsp;page, click&nbsp;Orders. The&nbsp;Order List&nbsp;page is displayed.&nbsp;&nbsp; Select the order for which you want to view the order status and click View Order Status (NextGen). The Call Center page is displayed. In the&nbsp;Orders&nbsp;Status&nbsp;section, the order details such as its number, status, type, store number where the order is placed, and payment status are displayed. In the Payment Info section, you can view the payment information. In the&nbsp;Items&nbsp;section, you can view the details of the selected item. In the&nbsp;Status Summary&nbsp;section, you can view the shipping details of the order. Order Details In the left quick access pane of the&nbsp;Customer Engagement&nbsp;page, click&nbsp;Orders. The&nbsp;Order List&nbsp;page is displayed.&nbsp;&nbsp; Select the order for which you want to view the order status and click View Order Details. The Order Details page displays the details of the selected order. Select the check box against the order and you can perform the following actions on the selected order by clicking the respective buttons: Allocate Release Cancel Edit Modifying Orders In the left quick access pane of the&nbsp;Customer Engagement&nbsp;page, click&nbsp;Orders. The&nbsp;Order List&nbsp;page is displayed.&nbsp;&nbsp; Select the order for which you want to view the order status and click View Order Status (NextGen). The Call Center page is displayed. In the Payment Info section, click &nbsp;icon and select Edit. The order opens in the edit mode In the Orders Details section, you can edit the&nbsp;promotions,&nbsp;coupons,&nbsp;appeasements&nbsp;at the order level (for all the selected items) by clicking the corresponding link. Click the&nbsp;Order Promotions&nbsp;and&nbsp;Order Coupons&nbsp;links to edit the offers and coupons applied to the order. You can view the details of each item and edit the promotions and coupons at the item level by clicking the respective&nbsp;Promotions&nbsp;and&nbsp;Coupons&nbsp;links that are displayed for each item. Click the&nbsp;icon to add instruction and communication notes at&nbsp;order and item level.&nbsp; Click the&nbsp;icon that is next to the&nbsp;Price&nbsp;field of the item to override the item prices. Also, you can&nbsp;add and override&nbsp;the Value Added Service(VAS) charges at the item level. Click the&nbsp;Add more items to the order&nbsp;link to add more items to the customer order. In the&nbsp;Order Total&nbsp;section, click the&nbsp;icon that is next to the&nbsp;Estimated S&H charges&nbsp;field to&nbsp;override the shipping and handling charges. Click the&nbsp;Shipping,&nbsp;Payment, and the&nbsp;Summary&nbsp;tabs and modify the editable fields, if required, to complete the order. Canceling Orders Customers may request for cancelation of items in a multiple item order or a reduction in the quantity of ordered items. Orders can be canceled if the order status is less than &#39;Partially Released&#39;. Each item in an order is considered as an order line. You can cancel an order line only in a multiple item order. Note: If you cancel an order which has a single order line, the Selected&nbsp;Order line cannot be deleted, order should have at least one line&nbsp;message is displayed. To cancel an order, perform the following steps: On the&nbsp;Item Search&nbsp;page, search and select an item. After you add&nbsp;the desired items to the shopping cart and complete the checkout process, the&nbsp;Call Center&nbsp;page that provides the details of the order is displayed.&nbsp; In the Order Details section of the&nbsp;Call Center&nbsp;page, click the&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;icon, and then select&nbsp;Cancel. In the&nbsp;Cancel Order&nbsp;window, select a reason and enter comments for canceling the order. Click&nbsp;Done. Holding Orders The Customer Transaction page enables you to place an order on hold. To&nbsp;place an order on hold, perform the following steps: On the&nbsp;Item Search&nbsp;page,&nbsp;search and select an item. After you add the desired items to the shopping cart and complete the checkout process, the&nbsp;Call Center&nbsp;page that provides the details of the order is displayed.&nbsp; In the Order Details section of the&nbsp;Call Center&nbsp;page, click the&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;icon, and then select&nbsp;Hold. In the&nbsp;Hold Order&nbsp;window, select a reason and enter the comments for placing the order on hold. Click&nbsp;Done.