# Create Exchange Orders

**Permalink:** create-exchange-orders
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Order Management/UI Help/Returns & Exchanges/Create Exchange Orders
**Content Length:** 25,962 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:00:09.377128

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Order Management››UI Help››Returns & Exchanges ››Create Exchange Orders Create Exchange Orders Exchange ItemsExchange Items Using New UIView Exchange Order StatusEdit Exchange OrdersTrack Return OrdersView Return ShipmentView Order Timeline There may be instances when you need to exchange items for customers and report the status of these transactions. Exchanges in OM are created and tracked as Exchange Orders, which combines returns and new orders for the replacement items. Exchange Items To exchange an item: Search for the order. If the order number is available: On the Customer Service Home page, in the Find an Order text box, enter the order number and search for an order. The corresponding order details are displayed in the Call Center page. In the Payment Info section, click the  icon and select Return. The Create Return page is displayed. If the order number is unavailable: On the Customer Service Home page, in the Find a Customer text box, enter the name, phone number, or e-mail of the customer and search for a customer. Click View More Search Options to use the first name, last name, email, and phone number of the customer to perform the search. Based on the search criteria, the customer list is displayed. Select a customer from the customer list to display the Customer Transactions page. In the Transaction List, select the appropriate transaction. In the Transaction Details section, click the  icon and select Return. The Create Return page is displayed. On the Create Return page, you can exchange a line item or all items once. To exchange a line item, perform the following steps: In the Ordered Items section, select the line item you want to exchange. By default, the maximum eligible quantity will be selected as the exchange quantity. However, you can update the quantity, if required. Select an appropriate option from the following options: Exchange - Same Style: To exchange an item with the same style Exchange - New Style: To exchange an item with new style Click Done. Select the reason for return and condition of the item. Specify (yes/no) if the customer requires a receipt. To exchange all items, perform the following steps: Select Exchange All to exchange all the eligible lines at once, and select an appropriate option Same Style: To exchange an item with the same style New Style: To exchange an item with new style Note: • Exchange All will be enabled only if Exchangeable attribute is enabled for the items associated to the order. The Exchangeable attributes can be enabled in the Item UI. • Exchange All will not be enabled when the exchange order lines are overridden regardless of whether it is same style or new style exchange. For such orders, choose the appropriate exchange option for the order line and click Done. To apply same reason for return and condition of items across all exchange order, select the reason and condition in the Return All section. The selected reason and condition will be displayed on the header and at all the lines. However, you can still change the reason or condition at each line, if required. By default, the maximum eligible quantity will be selected as the return quantity. However, you can update the quantity, if required. Specify (yes/no) if the customer requires a receipt. Click Proceed to Review. You can now edit the information in the Return Details area. Click Edit and make the necessary change, and then click Update. Click Confirm Return. Alternatively, click Cancel Return to cancel the return. Note: If the return address is not available, you can click the Add button to add information about the return item. Exchange Items Using New UI Note: Both even and uneven exchanges can be supported as part of the same order. To exchange an item: Search for the order. If the order number is available: On the Customer Service Home page, in the Find an Order text box, enter the order number and search for an order. The corresponding order details are displayed in the Call Center page. In the Payment Info section, click the  icon and select Return. The Create Return page is displayed. If the order number is unavailable: On the Customer Service Home page, in the Find a Customer text box, enter the name, phone number, or e-mail of the customer and search for a customer. Click View More Search Options to use the first name, last name, email, and phone number of the customer to perform the search. Based on the search criteria, the customer list is displayed. Select a customer from the customer list to display the Customer Transactions page. In the Transaction List, select the appropriate transaction. In the Transaction Details section, click the  icon and select Return. The Create Return page is displayed. On the Create Return page, you can exchange a line item or all items at once. You can also exchange item(s) with the same style or a new style. Exchange with Same Style Select the Exchange with Same Style option for the line item you want to exchange. Select the reason and condition of the item. Click Reset Selection to cancel the selections. Alternatively, to exchange all the eligible lines at once, In the Apply to All drop-down, select Exchange with Same Style option to exchange all the lines with the same style. Select the None option or Reset Selection to cancel all the selections. To apply the same reason and condition for items across all exchange order lines, select the reason and condition from the appropriate drop-down provided at the header level. The selected reason and condition will be displayed on all the lines. However, you can still change the reason or condition on each line, if required. By default, the maximum eligible quantity will be selected as the return quantity. However, you can update the quantity, if required. Select the Receipt Expected check box if the item should be sent back to DC. This is controlled through the "ReceiptExpected" flag in the call center configuration. The default value is false, which means every time a return order is initiated, the item is not expected back from the customer. The configuration can be changed based on business requirements. Click Next:Review. Exchange with New Style Select the Return option for the line item you want to exchange with a new style. Select the reason and condition of the item. Click Reset Selection to cancel the selections. Alternatively, to exchange all the eligible lines at once, In the Apply to All drop-down, select Return option to exchange all the lines with a new style. Select the None option or Reset Selection to cancel all the selections. To apply the same reason and condition for items across all exchange order lines, select the reason and condition from the appropriate drop-down provided at the header level. The selected reason and condition will be displayed on all the lines. However, you can still change the reason or condition on each line, if required. By default, the maximum eligible quantity will be selected as the return quantity. However, you can update the quantity, if required. Click Add Items. On the Item Search page, search and select an item to exchange with a new style. On the Create Return page, the newly added item is displayed as a purchased item and the item that you are exchanging as return items. If exhange with new style is selected (radio button or via apply to all drop-down), the system verifies if the item is available in stock. If the item is not available, a warning message - *Item is currently not available - will be displayed in red font. This is only a warning and does not prevent the CSR from continuing with the same style even exchnage process. The availability check is NOT with respect to quantity being exchanged. No additional configuration is required to opt for this feature, and it is automatically enabled for only the new returns UI. 3. In the Summary section, charge details such as exchange items, fees, and order total are displayed if the exchange item value is more than the return credit. Pay the order total using the available payment option or by clicking add another payment. Alternatively, if the exchange item value is less than the return credit, an estimated refund is displayed along with the refund total. In the Summary section, you can edit ship to address, return center, return items from by clicking Edit in the appropriate sections. 4. Click Confirm Return. 5. Alternatively, click Cancel Return to cancel the return or Back to Selection to return to the page where you want to reselect the items to return or exchange. Note: If the return address is not available, you can click the Add button to add information for the return item. View Exchange Order Status You can view a return status using: Return number Order number Name, email, phone Return Number / Order Number On the Customer Service Home page, in the Find an Order text box, enter the return number/order number and search for the return order. The corresponding order details such as exchange order status, returned items, payment info, return shipment, and so on are displayed on the Call Center page. Name, E-mail, and Phone On the Customer Service Home page, in the Find a Customer text box, enter the name, phone number, or e-mail of the customer and search for a customer. Click View More Search Options to use the first name, last name, email, and phone number of the customer to perform the search. Based on the search criteria, the customer list is displayed. Select a customer from the customer list to display the Customer Transactions page. From the Transactions option, select Exchanges. You can further filter the display of the exchanges using the Transaction List. The following options are available in the Transaction List drop-down Show All Last 7 days Last 30 days Last 60 days Last year Custom Range Based on the filter criteria, the exchange records are displayed. Select the exchange order for which you want to view the status. In the Transaction Details section, click the Order Status link. The Call Center page is displayed where you can view the exchange order details such as exchange order status, returned items, payment info, return shipment, and so on. Edit Exchange Orders The Customer Transaction/Call Center page enables you to edit the exchange order like overriding the price for the exchange order item. To edit the exchange order, perform the following steps: 1.    Navigate to the Customer Transaction/ Call Center page. 2.    In the Customer Transaction page, select the exchange order that you want to edit. 3.    In the Transaction Details section, click the   icon and select Edit. The order opens in the edit mode. Refer to Override Price section for details on editing the orders. Track Return Orders In the Customer Transactions page, you can view count indicators for the exchange order in the Returns & Exchanges area. The indicators show numbers (quantities) for the following: Ordered Allocated Released Shipped You can also view charged amount, if available. View Return Shipment The Customer Transaction/Call Center page enables you to view the return shipment of the item. You can view the inbound status, shipping method, number of packages, tracking number, and ship from/to address. Also, you can check if the package has been received. To view the return shipping status, perform the following steps: Navigate to the Customer Transaction / Call Center page. In the Status Summary section, click Return Shipments to view the number of packages, tracking number, date on which the item was received, Ship From and Ship Return To addresses, quantity of item returned, quantity of item received, and the condition of the received item. View Order Timeline Order Timeline enables you to view the history of changes on a customer order. Navigate to the Customer Transaction / Call Center page In the Payment Info section, click the  icon and select Order Timeline. In the Order Timeline window, you can view different timeline of the order.