# Create Return

**Permalink:** create_return
**Content Length:** 6,964 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:34:56.522010

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Digital Self-Service ››Create Return Returns Create ReturnView Return LabelEven Exchange OrderReturn via QR CodeReturn Tracking Create Return The Create Return feature enables the customers to return the items against a ship to home order. &nbsp; The various stages in a return process are listed below: &nbsp; Return creation: Select items and the reason for return to create a return order.&nbsp; Return preview: View the return summary and if a balance is due - select from the different payment methods&nbsp;configured and displayed on this page.&nbsp; Return confirmation:&nbsp;Confirm the return process. &nbsp; To return an item, customer needs to perform the following steps: &nbsp; Create an order. After the item is out for shipment, the system triggers a&nbsp;shipment confirmation email to the customer. To return the item, in the shipment confirmation email, click the Return link. In the Return Items screen, select the items you want to return. Click Edit and enter the quantity of items you want to return, in case you want to do a partial return. Select a reason for returning the item and click Next. Review the return summary along with the estimated refund amount and click Confirm to confirm the return order process. A maximum of 20 order lines can be returned on a single return order.&nbsp; View Return Label When a customer confirms return of an item, the Order Management System enables the customers to view and print the return label. This label can then be put on the package while returning the item over mail to the appropriate return center. To view the return label,&nbsp;perform the following steps: Create a return order.&nbsp; After the order is confirmed, in the Return Confirmation page, click View/Print Return Label. &nbsp; Note: The View/Print Return Label button will be displayed only after the return order is confirmed.&nbsp; The Return label opens in a new browser tab. You can save or print the return label as required. Even Exchange Order The Even Exchange feature enables the customers to create an even exchange through digital self-service so that the items can be replaced without contacting the customer service.&nbsp; To exchange an item, customer needs to perform the following steps: Create an order. After the item is shipped, the system triggers a confirmation email to the customer. To return the item, in the shipment confirmation email, click the Return link. In the Return Items screen, select the Exchange for same item check box for each item to replace the item by mail. Select a reason for exchange and click Next. The exchange item details are displayed along with the shipping information. In the Refund summary section, you can view the exchange details such as the return credit, exchange total, return fees and estimated refund. Click Confirm to confirm the exchange order process. Note: When the estimated refund amount is negative, the Confirm button will be disabled and the customer should&nbsp;contact the customer service to complete the exchange order process. &nbsp; Return via QR Code The Returns via QR Code feature enables the customers to scan the QR code provided by the carrier (FedEx/UPS) location to avoid printing of return&nbsp;shipping label, as many customers do not have home printers. Refer Returns and Exchanges for more information. To Scan the QR code, perform the following steps: Create a return order.&nbsp; After the order is confirmed, in the Return Confirmation page, scan the generated QR Code.&nbsp;The View/Print Return Label button will also be displayed if the return label is configured and if the customer chooses to use the return shipping label option. Note: There is no configuration to enable QR code returns via Digital Self-Service. If the user exit is implemented and a QR code image is retrieved from the carrier, then the Digital Self-Service UI displays the QR code.&nbsp;&nbsp; Return Tracking The Digital Self-Service Return Tracking page displays the return order details about return order packages and refund status. Navigate to the Digital Self-Service Return Tracking page. You can view the return tracking details for the order such as the packages and refund status, item details, and estimated delivery date. &nbsp;