# Create Return Orders

**Permalink:** create-return-orders
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Order Management/UI Help/Returns & Exchanges/Create Return Orders
**Content Length:** 26,774 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:00:07.730535

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Order Management››UI Help››Returns & Exchanges ››Create Return Orders Create Return Orders Return ItemsReturn Items Using New UIView Return StatusTrack Return OrdersView Return ShipmentView Order TimelineRefund/Exchange on Carrier Scan Returns can be mainly requested for a refund or exchange of the items delivered. Creating a return order is the process by which the customer can return and exchange the items. There may be instances when you need to process item returns from customers and report the status of these transactions. Returns in OM are created and tracked as Return Orders. The Call Center and Customer Transaction page enables you to return the items. Note that you can create return orders only for the fulfilled orders. Return Items To process a return: Search for the order. If the order number is available: On the Customer Service Home page, in the Find an Order text box, enter the order number and search for an order. The corresponding order details are displayed on the Call Center page. In the Payment Info section, click the  icon and select Return. The Create Return page is displayed. If the order number is unavailable: On the Customer Service Home page, in the Find a Customer text box, enter the name, phone number, or e-mail of the customer and search for a customer. Click View More Search Options to use the first name, last name, email, and phone number of the customer to perform the search. Based on the search criteria, the customer list is displayed. Select a customer from the customer list to display the Customer Transactions page. In the Transaction List, select the appropriate transaction for which you want to create a return order. In the Transaction Details section, click the  icon and select Return. The Create Return page is displayed. On the Create Return page, you can return a line item or all items at once. To return a line item, perform the following steps: In the Ordered Items section, select the line item you want to return. By default, the maximum eligible quantity will be selected as the return quantity. However, you can update the quantity, if required. Select the Return option and click Done. Select the reason for return and condition of the item. Specify (yes/no) if an item should be sent back to DC or not. This is controlled through the "ReceiptExpected" flag in the call center configuration. The default value is false, which means every time a return order is initiated, the item is not expected back from the customer. The configuration can be changed based on business requirements. To return all items, perform the following steps: Select Return All to return all the eligible lines at once. Note: • Return All will be enabled only if Returned At DC is enabled for the items associated to the order. The return attributes are enabled in the Item UI. • Return All will not be enabled when return order lines are overridden. For such orders, choose the Return option for the order line and click Done. To apply same reason for return and condition of items across all return order, select the reason and condition in the Return All section. The selected reason and condition will be displayed on the header and at all the lines. However, you can still change the reason or condition at each line, if required. By default, the maximum eligible quantity will be selected as the return quantity. However, you can update the quantity, if required. Specify (yes/no) if an item should be sent back to DC or not. This is controlled through the "ReceiptExpected" flag in the call center configuration. The default value is false, which means every time a return order is initiated, the item is not expected back from the customer. The configuration can be changed based on business requirements. Click Proceed to Review. You can now edit the information in the Return Details section. Click Edit and make the necessary change, and then click Update. Click Confirm Return. Alternatively, click Cancel Return to cancel the return. Note: If the return address is not available, you can click the Add button to add information for the return item. Note: The Customer Service module does not support in-store returns. The Return option will be disabled for items which you want to return-in store, although the Returnable At Store flag is set to true in the Items - Selling Attributes tab. However, CSR can override the default return action. Return Items Using New UI To process a return: Search for the order. If the order number is available: On the Customer Service Home page, in the Find an Order text box, enter the order number and search for an order. The corresponding order details are displayed on the Call Center page. In the Payment Info section, click the  icon and select Return. The Create Return page is displayed. If the order number is unavailable: On the Customer Service Home page, in the Find a Customer text box, enter the name, phone number, or e-mail of the customer and search for a customer. Click View More Search Options to use the first name, last name, email, and phone number of the customer to perform the search. Based on the search criteria, the customer list is displayed. Select a customer from the customer list to display the Customer Transactions page. In the Transaction List, select the appropriate transaction for which you want to create a return order. In the Transaction Details section, click the  icon and select Return. The Create Return page is displayed. On the Create Return page, you can return a line item or all items at once. To return a line item, perform the following steps: Select the Return option for the line item you want to return. By default, the maximum eligible quantity will be selected as the return quantity. However, you can update the quantity, if required. Select the reason and condition of the item. To return all items, perform the following steps: In the Apply to All drop-down, select Return to return all the eligible lines at once. To apply the same reason and condition for items across all return order lines, select the reason and condition from the appropriate drop-down provided at the header level. The selected reason and condition will be displayed on all the lines. However, you can still change the reason or condition on each line, if required. Select the Receipt Expected check box if the item should be sent back to DC. This is controlled through the "ReceiptExpected" flag in the call center configuration. The default value is false, which means every time a return order is initiated, the item is not expected back from the customer. The configuration can be changed based on business requirements. Click Next:Review. In the Summary section, you can edit the estimated refund by clicking the pencil icon and updating the waive fee. In the Refund Method section, you can update the refund method by clicking Refund as gift card. The return center, return items from, and shipping method can be updated by clicking Edit in the appropriate sections. Click Confirm Return. Alternatively, click Cancel Return to cancel the return or Back to Selection to return to the page where you want to reselect the items to return or exchange. Note: If the return address is not available, you can click the Add button to add information about the return item. Note: The Customer Service module does not support in-store returns. The Return option will be disabled for items which you want to return-in store, although the Returnable At Store flag is set to true in the Items - Selling Attributes tab. However, CSR can override the default return action. View Return Status You can view a return status using: Return number Order number Name, email, phone Return Number / Order Number On the Customer Service Home page, in the Find an Order text box, enter the return number/order number and search for the return order. The corresponding order details such as return status, returned items, payment info, return shipment, and so on are displayed in the Call Center page. Name, E-mail, and Phone On the Customer Service Home page, in the Find a Customer text box, enter the name, phone number, or e-mail of the customer and search for a customer. Click View More Search Options to use the first name, last name, email, and phone number of the customer to perform the search. Based on the search criteria, the customer list is displayed. Select a customer from the customer list to display the Customer Transactions page. From the Transactions option, select Returns. You can further filter the display of the returns using the Transaction List. The following options are available in the Transaction List drop-down Show All Last 7 days Last 30 days Last 60 days Last year Custom Range Based on the filter criteria, the return records are displayed. Select the return order for which you want to view the status. In the Transaction Details section, click the Order Status link. The Call Center page is displayed where you can view the return order details such as return status, returned items, payment info, return shipment, and so on. Track Return Orders In the Customer Transactions / Call Center page, you can view count indicators for the return order in the Returns & Exchanges area. The indicators show numbers (quantities) for the following: Return Quantity Received Invoiced Pending Approval Approved You can also view return amount and exchange amount, if any. View Return Shipment The Customer Transaction/Call Center page enable you to view the return shipment of the item. You can view the inbound status, shipping method, number of packages, tracking number, receipt expected, and ship from/to address. Also, you can check if the package has been received. To view the return shipping status, perform the following steps: Navigate to the Customer Transaction / Call Center page. In the Status Summary section, click Return Shipments to view the number of packages, tracking number, date on which the item was received, Ship From and Ship Return To addresses, quantity of item returned, quantity of item received, and the condition of the received item. View Order Timeline Order Timeline enables you to view the history of changes on a customer order. Navigate to the Customer Transaction / Call Center page In the Payment Info section, click the  icon and select Order Timeline. In the Order Timeline window, you can view different timeline of the order. Refund/Exchange on Carrier Scan This feature enables you to refund or release exchange items earlier in the return process. To return a carrier scanned order, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Orders On the Order List or Order Line List page, you can filter orders that are carrier scanned. To do this, In the filter panel, click the More drop-down and select the Return Status check box. The Return Status drop-down now appears in the filter panel. In the Return Status drop-down, select the Carrier Scanned option and then click Apply to see the carrier scanned orders. Select a carrier scanned order that you want to return from the list. Click the icon, and then click Return. Select the Receipt Expected options as required Yes, if the item is expected to be returned to start the refund process. No, if the item is not expected to be returned to start the refund process Select the return quantity, reason for return and the condition of the item and click Proceed to Review. Click Confirm Return. You can now see the refund amount in the Estimated Refund section. The return Order is created successfully and a  message is displayed with the Return Order Number. On the Order Status page of the newly returned order, the status of the returned items is Pending Return. At this stage, you can only see the Returned Quantity dough nut in black and the Received and Invoiced dough nuts are greyed out. After the items are carrier scanned , the invoice is generated and you can see the details in the Payments and Settlement section. You can see the return status for the returned items as carrier scanned. You can see the dough nut colors as Returned Quantity - black,  Carrier scanned and Invoiced - green, and Received is greyed out. To move the order to received,  click the icon, and then click Mark as Received. The Mark as Received pop-up is displayed. Click Proceed. You can see the lifecycle of the return order is returned. You can see the dough nut colors as Returned Quantity - black, Carrier scanned, Invoiced, and Received as green. Note: A chargeback invoice will be created if the received quantity is less than the expected quantity. Refer Return Variance for more details. For example, if the carrier scanned quantity is 5 and the received quality is only 2, a charge back invoice will be created and you can see the details in the Status Summary section. The Invoiced dough nut will be orange and will display the actually received quantity with the tool tip as Returned Invoiced Quantity =5, Chargeback Invoice Quantity = 3