# Cross-Organization Fulfillment Process

**Permalink:** cross-org-fulfillment-process
**Content Length:** 6,889 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:36:04.419752

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Inventory & Fulfillment&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Order Fulfillment&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Cross-Organization Fulfilllment ››Cross-Organization Fulfillment Process Cross-Organization Fulfillment Process Order Release to FulfillmentStore Fulfillment OperationsFulfillment Outbound Cross-org fulfillment allows an order that is created in one organization&nbsp;to be fulfilled from a location in another organization. This allows inventory to be shared between different brands or countries, while still maintaining separate organizations by country or brand. For example, a retailer using this feature can process an&nbsp;e-commerce order that was captured from the&nbsp;retailer's site in country A (Organization A) and then&nbsp;fulfill the order from a store in country B (Organization B.) All customer-facing documents including the&nbsp;packing slip and pickup slip are still generated in&nbsp;the locale and format of the customer order's organization. Cross-org fulfillment is brought into effect&nbsp;for the buy online pickup in store&nbsp;(BOPIS) orders, ship to home and ship to store orders. Note that in order to perform cross-organization fulfillment, both item and inventory must be shared between these organizations. In addition, application users must be provided access to all of the organizations involved in the cross-organization fulfillment. &nbsp; Order Release to Fulfillment When a release is converted to a fulfillment,&nbsp;the fulfillment's organization is updated with&nbsp;the store's organization. The original order organization is stored in the&nbsp;OrderOrganizationId attribute on the fulfillment. For example, assume that a&nbsp;customer places an order with Organization A&nbsp;and it is allocated to a store in Organization B&nbsp;for fulfillment. Refer to the sample hierarchy in the Configuration guide for the example model. Store Fulfillment Operations Store processes such as picking, packing and confirm pickup behave in the same manner as if the order and fulfillment organizations were the same.&nbsp; Tagging Fulfillments : For cross-organization fulfillments, do not use order or order line attributes in the rule condition for store fulfillment tags since the order's organization is different&nbsp;from the fulfillment's organization. Pickup at Store The pickup&nbsp;slip is generated based on the Jasper templates defined in the order's organization. This ensures that the customer-facing document&nbsp;references the organization-specific templates and logos that correspond to the customer's order. Ship to Home The invoicing details are fetched using the order's organization to ensure the cost details are based on the customer's order. In addition, the packing slip is generated based on the Jasper templates defined in the order's organization. This ensures that the customer-facing document&nbsp;references the organization-specific templates and logos that correspond to the customer's order. Ship to Store The merge fulfillment can be fulfilled by a store that belongs to a different organization. As an example, a customer can place a pickup order for Store B (Organization B)&nbsp;that is shipped from Store A that belongs to Organization&nbsp;A. For the pickup store to receive cross-org fulfilled packages, the package receipt type must be set to ReceiveByPackage, ReceiveByItem, or ReceiveByLoad. Note:&nbsp;When creating a package for the merge leg fulfillment, the PackageId and Tracking Number should&nbsp;be unique&nbsp;for&nbsp;each package record.&nbsp; Fulfillment Outbound The order's organization is sent&nbsp;in the outbound message headers when communicating back to Order Management. Base seed data ensures that the 'system-msg-user'&nbsp;user is&nbsp;used to post the outbound messages to the queue for communications between the Fulfillment and Order components. Returns : In-store returns will be accepted in a store within&nbsp;the fulfilling organization. Orders returned to an organization other than the fulfilling organization will be considered as a blind return, and will not be tied to the original order.&nbsp; &nbsp;