# Cross-Organization Configuration

**Permalink:** cross-org-fulfillment-configuration
**Content Length:** 9,694 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:36:05.216493

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Inventory & Fulfillment&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Order Fulfillment&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Cross-Organization Fulfilllment ››Cross-Organization Configuration Cross-Organization Fulfillment Configuration &nbsp; Store Implementation ConfigurationSample HierarchyProfile SetupItem and InventoryCarrierCarrier Facility AccountsUser AccessOutbound Message TypesUIs and Entities Store Implementation Configuration The &quot;Allow stores to fulfill orders across organizations&quot; parameter in the&nbsp;Store Implementation Configuration UI should be turned on to allow cross-organization fulfillment. The default configuration is false. This configuration belongs to the ful::storeImplConfig&nbsp;profile purpose. This profile purpose should be set up with the same profile id across all organizations that cross fulfill across&nbsp;each other. Sample Hierarchy Refer to the sample organization hierarchy below for the concepts explained in this document.&nbsp;&nbsp; Note: In this sample hierarchy, brand is higher in the hierarchy than country, and orders are created at the country level. Alternatively, country can be defined higher in the hierarchy than brand, meaning that orders would be placed at the brand level. &nbsp; Assume that the retailer wishes to use inventory maintained at&nbsp;Europe (regional level) for all the orders placed within the countries in Europe. Profile Setup Item and Inventory Item and Inventory should be shared between the organizations that want to cross-fulfill with&nbsp;each other. For example, if a customer order from Germany can&nbsp;be fulfilled by a store in France, the inventory and item profiles should be shared between these two&nbsp;organizations. The following profile purposes must use the same profile in their active provisioning profile for all the organizations where cross-organization fulfillment is needed. Refer to profile guide for more details. itm::item itm::commonConfig inv::supply inv::supplyConfiguration inv::atc inv::locationConfiguration Carrier Carriers should be shared between organizations that cross-fulfill with&nbsp;each other. This ensures that a German order for carrier A that is allocated and released to a store in France can be&nbsp;shipped&nbsp;using Carrier A. Share the following profile purposes between the organizations: pcl::carrier pcl::shippingMethod If the same carrier is not supported in both organizations, create a common&nbsp;carrier code&nbsp;or shipviaId&nbsp;for the organizations. This can then point to different carriers and service levels specific to each organization. See example below: Organization Carrier Code Actual Provider Ship Via Carrier of Ship Via Germany A Carrier A Standard Carrier A Germany B Carrier B Expedited Carrier B France A Carrier X Standard Carrier X France B Carrier Y Expedited Carrier Y &nbsp; Carrier Facility Accounts Create carrier facility accounts for each of the carriers supported by each store. The facility accounts are transactional and will remain in the respective organization. User Access Store associates who fulfill orders placed in different&nbsp;organizations must have&nbsp;access to the&nbsp;order&#39;s organization&nbsp;in order to print customer-facing documents such as the packing slip and pickup slip. Store associates must be given access to all the organizations that participate in the cross-organization fulfillment. Refer to Master data guide&nbsp;for details on the user access setup. Outbound Message Types In order to index the fulfillment in the right organization,&nbsp; the IsUserOverride&nbsp;attribute of the&nbsp;FulfillmentIndexMSGType outbound message type must be set to true. The following is the sample json of the base provided outbound message types. { &quot;MessageType&quot;: &quot;FulfillmentIndexMSGType&quot;, &quot;IsUserOverride&quot;: true, &quot;Transactional&quot;: true, &quot;PersistMessageToMsgStore&quot;: false, &quot;OutBoundQueues&quot;: { &quot;QueueName&quot;: &quot;queue.FulfillmentIndexQueue&quot; } } UIs and Entities The configuration UIs mentioned in this document is listed in the following table,&nbsp;along with information to&nbsp;navigate&nbsp;to the API documentation: UI Name Component Group Seed Data Present? Seed Data Profile Store Implementation Configuration Fulfillment FulfillmentImplementationConfiguration Services Yes Base Outbound Message Types Fulfillment&nbsp; OutboundMessageType Services Yes Base &nbsp;