# Troubleshooting 

**Permalink:** cs_troubleshooting
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Order Management/Process & Configuration Guides/Customer Service/Troubleshooting 
**Content Length:** 25,154 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:55:07.721724

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Order Management››Process & Configuration Guides››Customer Service ››Troubleshooting Troubleshooting Enable Session Based Troubleshooting Logs Order Creation and Edit Order Item price is overridden, and I would like to revert to the original price but when "Revert to Original Price" is selected, item price becomes $0.00.When opening the item search page, items are not appearing on the page.I put the same hold on an order with new comments and I no longer see the previous hold.I don't see the Order Types (or other filter data) in the drop-down that I have configured for the child organizations.The dollar amount defaults to the balance due in the 'add payment method' panel. Is there a way to display no default, i.e. an empty field?If I remove state validation in address entry and allow free text entry for the state, what impact does it have if an incorrect state is entered?How many digits are allowed in the phone number? I notice that appeasements applied in customer service are prorated to both my item prices and my charges (S&H, VAS, etc.). My retailer only wants these prorated against the item price - not the charges. How can I accomplish this?Does onPlaceOrder tie to Place Order and onConfirmOrder to Confirm Changes?How to integrate a third party with Manhattan Active® Omni to validate an email address while creating a new customer?Order StatusWhen I click on the tracking number for a fulfilled order, why do I see a shipment tracking popup for some carriers but for other carriers I'm directed to the carrier's website?I don't see the tracking number on my order hyperlinked.UI TroubleshootingI am having resolution issues on the UI. What is the minimum resolution supported?When I zoom in or out of the browser, the call center UIs do not render correctly. Is browser zoom supported?Is it possible to change the background color of Omni facade UIs?In the Orders List and Order Line List filters, other than the Order Search, other filter criteria are returning all valuesIn the Call Center UI, Items can be searched using what all attributes? Can I edit and save order line extended attribute on Orders UI by configuring field extensions?I don't see customer/customer/save API call in the CSR screen. How to see base API - customer/customer/save?User inputs containing homographs are not saved as intendedHow to control the max time in which CSR user session is active when using CS/CE/order UIs.Label localization not working on deploying label entries using Proactive Enable Session Based Troubleshooting Logs If contact center agents encounter issues, they can enable troubleshooting logs to assist the services team in resolving the issue. A contact center agent can enable logs for their browser alone through the Contact Center Troubleshooting Tools UI. The services team can then inspect the logs to further investigate the issue once it's been reproduced. These logs are enabled in 30 minute increments and can be extended by clicking on enable logs and the timer will update on the UI letting the user know when the logs will be disabled with a timestamp based off of the user's configured timezone. In order for the user to be able to enable logs they will need the following resource: omnifacade::contactCenterTroubleshootingTools::admin. Logs will automatically disable when the time is reached or when the user logs out of the application from the contact center application. The logs will remain enabled for the browser if the user does not log out through the contact center UI and if the same browser is used to log in with another user or if another tab is opened. This will enable logs for the following components; customerengagementfacade, order, payment, search, searchv2, parcel, fedex, ups, usps, inventory, promising, cases, email, customerinteraction, social, customer, selfservice, virtualassistant, and paymentgateway. Logs will only print if the component has been called by the user. Omnifacade component is not enabled and if the issue is happening on the Orders UI then this component will need to be enabled manually. Order Creation and Edit Order Item price is overridden, and I would like to revert to the original price but when "Revert to Original Price" is selected, item price becomes $0.00. Check the order type of the order being edited. If the order was imported and order configuration has price & promotions disabled for that specific order type configuration, the order will not call the price and promotions component and the item price will be returned as null. CSR can reference Price Override History to view original price of item on the imported order. When opening the item search page, items are not appearing on the page. Ensure the profile ID for profile purpose itm::item for the organization where the items are being searched for is the same as the profile ID for the organization where the item is imported. Ensure the profile ID for prc::ItemPrice is set properly for the organization for which the price will be imported. Ensure the profile ID for ser::batch is copied for all the organizations. Ensure the consumers are up for ItemIndexQueue.  If any of the consumers are not up, then bring them up by hitting the following API: {{url}}/search/api/framework/awpf/inbound/initialize/org/{org-id} If any of the above data is corrected, then run reset to fix the data in elastic. {{url}}/search/api/search/item/reset I put the same hold on an order with new comments and I no longer see the previous hold. The Call Center can have multiple order holds at once (up to 1000 holds on the order) but each order hold needs to have a unique hold ID and if the same hold is put on the order twice, the most recent hold and comments will be visible on the UI. I don't see the Order Types (or other filter data) in the drop-down that I have configured for the child organizations. Profile-based data (order type, users, etc. - see full list above) is only displayed for the currently-selected org. So, if the top right org drop-down has the parent org selected, then only the data configured for the parent org is displayed. Follow instructions above to manage data in a way that will work with this feature. The dollar amount defaults to the balance due in the 'add payment method' panel. Is there a way to display no default, i.e. an empty field? This is not currently possible. If I remove state validation in address entry and allow free text entry for the state, what impact does it have if an incorrect state is entered? Invalid state would have an impact on scheduling and taxation (if state tax is being used). How many digits are allowed in the phone number? There is no restriction on the number of digits that can be entered by the user (though a max of 33 digits can be entered based on the data type). There will not be any formatting of the numbers, if the no of digits is > 10, else the digits get formatted in the USA formatting. Example: - (123) 456-7890. For formatting of international phone numbers and prefix selection reference country code configuration. I notice that appeasements applied in customer service are prorated to both my item prices and my charges (S&H, VAS, etc.). My retailer only wants these prorated against the item price - not the charges. How can I accomplish this? By default, appeasements are prorated against item price and charges. If a 10% appeasement is applied on an order with a $50 item and $10 S&H charge, then the appeasement will get calculated as $6 and will prorate as $5 against item and $1 against S&H charge. If proration is needed against the item price of $50, then the UI request has to be modified to save the appeasement with discountOn = ItemPrice. The UI currently saves appeasements with discountOn = Order / OrderLine, which prorates against item price and charges. To accomplish this, customize the request sent from the UI during appeasements. The below API is used for save appeasement. A command router entry can be added to take the control to the custom component and then apply logic only if LineAppeasementApplied or HeaderAppeasementApplied is true. Simply pass the call to base API for other save calls and send the response back to the UI. This approach is easier than a backend user exit, because the backend UE will be unnecessarily called for all save calls. API details: Request URL: /customerengagementfacade/api/customerengagementfacade/ds/order/saveOrder?LineAppeasementApplied=true&AppeasementAppliedOnLineId=1&templateName=* Request Method: POST Does onPlaceOrder tie to Place Order and onConfirmOrder to Confirm Changes? When Order is confirmed, the Confirm Changes button is displayed and onConfirmOrder event is fired. When Order is not confirmed, the Place Order button is displayed and onPlaceOrder event is fired. How to integrate a third party with Manhattan Active® Omni to validate an email address while creating a new customer? After entering the customer details for a new customer on the customer details page, by clicking the Done button, an order save call is made. Use the command router approach to intercept order save API call to integrate with the third party for email address validation. API: customerengagementfacade/ds/order/save/ds/order/save Order Status When I click on the tracking number for a fulfilled order, why do I see a shipment tracking popup for some carriers but for other carriers I'm directed to the carrier's website? Shipment tracking within the contact center must be enabled for some carriers but not others. See here for configuration details: Call Center Configuration I don't see the tracking number on my order hyperlinked. Troubleshoot in Chrome dev tools by loading this UI Check the shipments API response - is TrackingNumberWebURL null? If so, check to ensure that the order's return tracking detail entity has a CarrierCode populated. If CarrierCode is null, this URL will not be linked. If custom third-party carrier integration is implemented for generating the return shipping label, ensure custom logic is populating CarrierCode on the response, when saving the return tracking detail. UI Troubleshooting I am having resolution issues on the UI. What is the minimum resolution supported? The minimum resolution for Call Center Angular UIs is 1366x768 When I zoom in or out of the browser, the call center UIs do not render correctly. Is browser zoom supported? Manhattan Active® Omni supports opening pages in different form factors but does not necessarily support browser zoom in and out. Is it possible to change the background color of Omni facade UIs? This is currently not possible. In the Orders List and Order Line List filters, other than the Order Search, other filter criteria are returning all values All fields except order in the filter searches with like operator (on searching for customer with first name as John, results will be shown for John Smith, John Doe etc.) In the Call Center UI, Items can be searched using what all attributes? From base, there are fixed number of attributes - item description, style, color, size, and item Id for item search. Can I edit and save order line extended attribute on Orders UI by configuring field extensions? This is currently not possible. I don't see customer/customer/save API call in the CSR screen. How to see base API - customer/customer/save? The register customer pop-up is displayed after placing an order and the customer/customer/save API is invoked only if the Register Customer check box is selected in the Call Center Configuration. The update customer pop-up is displayed to save any address and payment information only if the Update Customer check box is selected. User inputs containing homographs are not saved as intended Example: Not able to save a customer with an email containing a homograph only in the domain name choe@gmàil.com This is generic HTML issue and not specific to Manhattan Active® Omni. Google Chrome versions 51 and later use an algorithm similar to the one used by Firefox. Previous versions display an IDN only if all of its characters belong to one (and only one) of the user's preferred languages. Chromium and Chromium-based browsers such as Microsoft Edge (since 2019) and Opera also use the same algorithm. How to control the max time in which CSR user session is active when using CS/CE/order UIs. There is no configuration to trigger automatic log off based on UI inactivity for CS/CE /Order UIs. Label localization not working on deploying label entries using Proactive Currently, the CE facade component does not support localization bundles added through Proactive, as it remains in the old architecture, which retrieves localization from the KV store.