# Customer Enagement Overview

**Permalink:** cusengoverview
**Content Length:** 7,180 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:35:28.021331

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Customer Engagement&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help ››Customer Enagement Overview Customer Engagement Overview Customer engagement enhances&nbsp;our ability to optimize the customer journey in the order lifecycle. It is a complete one-stop solution to deliver relevant and useful interactions with the customers about their issues.&nbsp; Customer engagement manages all aspects of interactions that the retailer has with the customer.&nbsp; This platform combines communication across all channels to provide a consistent brand experience. For example, if a customer has posted a complaint on social media and then calls the CSR. The CSR will directly greet the customer by his/her name as the customer engagement software has already made the CSR aware of the customer&#39;s name and his issues. This module enables the customer to choose how and when they want to interact with the brand. Hence, this allows the retailers to deliver&nbsp;consistently and regularly regardless of the communication channel. The following are a few areas which facilitate&nbsp;better customer engagement. Understand the needs of the existing customer. Prioritize and categorize customers based on their net spending towards the retailer. Communicate to customer through&nbsp;all possible channels.&nbsp; Decrease&nbsp;the turnaround time to solve customer issues. Provide customer dashboard metrics through intelligent data analytics. Using the dashboard we can easily visualize customer net worth, loyalty, buying history and trends.&nbsp; The following pictorial representation highlights the different types of interaction channels that support customer engagement. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Customer&nbsp;engagement&nbsp;functionalities&nbsp;are&nbsp;primarily classified as: Case Management Customer Dashboard Social Listening Customer Management The navigation bar of the Customer Engagement landing page enables you to navigate through the various interfaces, each dedicated to a separate part of the overall customer engagement. The navigation bar contains the following icons: Home: Navigates to the appropriate&nbsp;Contact Center Agent Dashboard. Cases: Navigates to the&nbsp;Case List&nbsp;page. Social: Navigates to the&nbsp;Social Listening&nbsp;page. Email:&nbsp;Navigates to the Email page, where you can create a new case, view and edit the details of an existing case by clicking Create Case, View Case Details, and Edit respectively. Item Search: Navigates to the&nbsp;Item Search&nbsp;page. Orders: Navigates to the&nbsp;Order&nbsp;List&nbsp;page. Interact: Navigates to the Contact Center Agent Inbox. Messages:&nbsp;Navigates to Active and Done tabs, which displays the text conversation between customers and CSRs. When the CSR completes the interaction wrap up, the Interaction Status attribute is set to &quot;Done&quot;. To retrieve conversations from the Done tab, select the conversation and click &quot;Make Active&quot;. This will change the Interaction Status to be &quot;Active&quot; again and the CSR can proceed to send messages to the customer. &nbsp;