# Customer Profile

**Permalink:** cusprofile
**Content Length:** 9,238 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:35:15.445758

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Customer Engagement&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Customer Management ››Customer Profile Customer Profile Customer ProfileCustomer Personal DetailsCustomer Contact DetailsCustomer Shipping/Billing AddressAdding New Shipping/Billing AddressEditing Shipping/Billing AddressDeleting Shipping/Billing AddressPayment InformationPreference The View Profile option provided in all the customer information panels such as Customer Dashboard, Order Status, and Social Listening screens is used to manage the Customer Profile. In the customer information panel, click the three dot icon next to the customer name, and then select the View Profile option. The Customer Profile page is displayed. All the customer related information is accessible via the navigation pane on the Customer Profile page. The navigation pane contains the following icons: About: Provides the basic customer information such as the first name, last name, gender, phone number, email address, status, member since, and tax-exempt ID. Contact: Provides the customer contact details. Address: Provides the shipping address of the customer. Payment: Provides the payment details associated with the customer. Preferences: Provides the preferences for Contact Method, Shipping Method, preferred time to contact the customer, and the store location for pickup. Customer Personal Details The About feature enables the CSR to edit the basic information of a customer. &nbsp; In the left navigation pane of the Customer Profile page, click About to view the customer information. Click Edit to modify the customer information. Update the values, if required, and then click Save to save the changes. Customer Contact Details The Contact feature enables the CSR to manage the details of different contact types associated with the&nbsp;customer. The agent can edit or delete an existing contact, as well as create new ones. In the left navigation pane of the&nbsp;Customer Profile&nbsp;page, click&nbsp;Contact&nbsp;to view the contact details of the customer. Click&nbsp;Edit&nbsp;to modify the contact details. Any required columns are identified with an *. If a record was interfaced without the contact type defined, the agent will need to provide a contact type to edit the record. Update the values, if required, and then click&nbsp;Save&nbsp;to save the changes. To&nbsp;delete&nbsp;a record, select the record and click Detail. The system will display a confirmation message: the agent will need to select OK on the message and the system will delete the record. To&nbsp;create&nbsp;a record, choose the Add New Contact. The agent will need to provide the required contact information. Click Save to save the new record. Customer Shipping/Billing Address The Address feature enables the CSR to edit or delete the existing customer shipping/billing address, or add a new address. If a valid city is configured, then this city will determine the time displayed under customer name in contact center on the top left of the screen. If an invalid city is present, whatever CSR time which is configured will display. Adding New Shipping/Billing Address In the left navigation pane of the Customer Profile page, click Address to view the shipping/billing address. To add a new address, click Add New Address. Enter the address details. Note: An asterisk(*) indicates a required field. Make sure you enter all the required fields. In the Address Type drop-down, select the Address Type as &ldquo;Shipping&rdquo;, &ldquo;Billing&rdquo; or &ldquo;Both&rdquo; based on the type of address you want to add. Select the Preferred Address to indicate the address as the preferred address to contact the customer. Click Save to save the address. Note: When you click Save, the address validation is done by the system and displays the&nbsp;address verification status. If the Address Verified is false and you still want to consider the address that you have&nbsp;entered, select Save as is and click Save. You can now see that the Address Verified field will display the value as&nbsp;False.&nbsp; Editing Shipping/Billing Address In the left navigation pane of the Customer Profile page, click Address to view the shipping/billing address. Click Edit to edit the existing address. Modify the values and click Save to save the changes. Deleting Shipping/Billing Address In the left navigation pane of the Customer Profile page, click Address to view the shipping/billing address. Select the address you want to delete and click Delete. Payment Information The Payment feature enables the CSR to delete any of the existing payment methods from the Customer Profile. In the left navigation pane of the Customer Profile page, click Payment to view the payment details of the customer. Click Delete to delete the payment information for the customer. Preference The Preference feature enables the CSR to view and edit the customer contact channel preferences. In the left navigation pane of the Customer Profile page, click Preferences. Click Edit to modify the preference details. Update the values and click Save to save the changes.