# UI Resources

**Permalink:** customer-service-ui-resources
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Order Management/Process & Configuration Guides/Customer Service/UI Resources
**Content Length:** 104,138 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:55:06.182297

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Order Management››Process & Configuration Guides››Customer Service ››UI Resources UI Resources - Customer Service This page lists the grants details for each of the screens and resources. CSR Home Item ScreenEdit OrderTransaction ListCustomer NotesCustomer ProfileOrder/Return StatusCreate ReturnEdit Return ConfigurationsCustomer service insights DashboardGet Grants for Users and RolesCustomerservice::order::create Grant & HierarchyExclusion Grant: Exclusion of specific resources within the grant’s domainExclusion Grants and Order Notes If a user is given wildcard grants, they may automatically get access to new features which are protected by new grants that fall within the wildcard criteria. For example, users with "customerengagementfacade::*" will get access to all the resources that starts with "customerenganementfacade".  It is recommended to add individual grants to a role instead of wildcard grants. Note: Users must have the same grants across different organizations. Refer Cross Org Visibility for more details. Resource(s) Comments customerservice::* This resource allows users to access all the customer service screens. customerservice::view customerservice::api::* This resource allows users to only view the customer service screens. customerservice::view This resource allows users to view customer service in the menu entry and on the home page. Note: This grant is introduced with the 24.1 release to enable users to access Contact Center without Customer Engagement. CSR Home Location Action Resource(s) Comments CSR Home screen Access the Home screen customerengagementfacade::view This is the Home screen for CSRs and can be accessed from Omnifacade Home screen Left navigation pane Click the Home icon NA Navigates you to the CSR home screen Left navigation pane Click the Item Search icon NA Navigates you to the Item Search screen Left navigation pane Click the Orders icon omnifacade::order::order::read Navigates you to Omnifacade -> Order list page Item Screen Location Action Resources(s) Comments Item Search screen Access the Item Search screen customerengagementfacade::view It allows you to search for items. This page can be accessed from the CSR Home screen. Item Details screen Click the CHECKOUT button NA It allows you to checkout into the edit order screen. This button gets enabled when atleast one item is added to the cart. Item Details screen Click the ADD & CHECKOUT button customerservice::order::create customerservice::order::edit It adds items and allows you to checkout into the edit order screen. The usability of the button is also impacted on call center config (Add item on inventory availability) Note: If you have only customerservice::order::create permission, then you will be able to add items while creating new orders and will not be able to add more items to an existing order. Whereas if you have only customerservice::order::edit permission, then you will be able to add items to the existing orders and will not be able to create a new order by adding an item. (The above note applies to the 'ADD TO CART' button as well) Item Details screen Click the ADD TO CART button customerservice::order::create customerservice::order::edit It allows you to add the currently displayed item to the cart. The usability of the button is also impacted on call center config (Add item on inventory availability) Item Details screen Select a Delivery option Ship to address Pickup at store Ship to store Email NA Delivery options are enabled based on item configuration. Refer to the following selling attributes in item Ship to Address Pick Up In Store Ship to Store Digital Goods Item Details screen Select a Shipping Method from the options configured NA Shipping methods are displayed based on snh configuration. Item Details screen To view 'Share with Email' button customerservice::order::itemsearch::sendproductrecommendationlink It allows the CSR to enter the email address of the customer in the 'Phone' field in the Share Item panel, and then click the 'Share with Email' button Item Details screen To view 'Share with SMS' button customerservice::order::itemsearch::sendproductrecommendationlinksms It allows the CSR to enter the phone number of the customer in the 'Phone' field in the Share Item panel, and then click the 'Share with SMS' button Store Locator pop-up window - Store list Click the Select hyperlink next to the Pickup at Store delivery option NA The behavior of this hyperlink depends on multiple aspects. Items selling attribute - Pick Up In Store Location's fulfillment attribute - Pickup At Store Inventory availability in the configured view (Store Level View) in call center config Note: If no view is configured, then availability check doesn't happen. Store Locator pop-up window- Store list Click the Select hyperlink next to the Ship to Store delivery option NA The behavior of this button depends on multiple aspects. Items selling attribute - Ship to Store Location's fulfillment attribute - Ship To Store Inventory availability in the configured view (Ship to Store View) in call center config Note: If no view is configured, then availability check doesn't happen. Edit Order Location Action Resource(s) Comments Call Center screen Access edit order screen customerengagementfacade::view It allows you to edit the order. This screen can be accessed from Order Status screen Transaction List screen Shipping and Payment sections Click the SHIPPING tab NA Shipping and Payment sections Click the PAYMENT tab NA Enabled if all the shipping information is available in the order. Shipping and Payment sections Click the SUMMARY tab NA Enabled if all the shipping and payment information is available in the order. SHIPPING tab Select the SHIP TO ADDRESS option NA It allows you to provide a shipping address. Enabled if the selected item supports ship to address delivery method. Mod type config (OrderLine::DeliveryMethod) will also impact this action. SHIPPING tab Select the PICK UP AT STORE option NA It allows you to select/update a store to pick the item. Enabled if the selected item supports pick up at store delivery method. Mod type config (OrderLine::DeliveryMethod) will also impact this action. SHIPPING tab Select the SHIP TO STORE option NA It allows you to select/update a store to ship the item to. Enabled if the selected item supports the ship to store delivery method. Mod type config (OrderLine::DeliveryMethod) will also impact this action. SHIPPING tab > SHIP TO ADDRESS option > ADD NEW ADDRESS section Click the USE THIS button customerservice::order::create customerservice::order::edit Saves the address entered. Disabled if any of the mandatory fields are not provided. SHIPPING tab > SHIP TO ADDRESS option > AVAILABLE ADDRESSES section Click the USE THIS button customerservice::order::create customerservice::order::edit It shows available addresses of registered customers that could be selected for the order. SHIPPING tab > SHIP TO ADDRESS option > ADDRESSES USED IN THIS ORDER section Click the EDIT button customerservice::order::create customerservice::order::edit It allows you to edit the address and shipping method selected for lines. SHIPPING tab > PICK UP AT STORE option Click the Store Selector button customerservice::order::create customerservice::order::edit Displays the store locator pop-up window SHIPPING tab > PICK UP AT STORE option Click the Store Selector button customerservice::order::create customerservice::order::edit Displays the store locator pop-up window SHIPPING tab Click the PROCEED TO PAYMENT button NA Navigates you to the PAYMENT tab Enabled if all the shipping information is available in the order. SHIPPING tab Click the CONVERT TO ORDER button customerengagementfacade::order::quoteorder::convert Converts a quote order to a customer service order. Navigates you to the PAYMENT tab. Enabled if the order is a Quote Order and the CSR has the grant. PAYMENT tab > ADD CREDIT CARD section Select the SAME AS SHIPPING ADDRESS check box NA Copies the available shipping address in order to the billing address PAYMENT tab > ADD CREDIT CARD section Click the ADD CARD INFO button customerservice::order::create customerservice::order::edit Displays the pop-up window to capture additional card information. Enabled once all mandatory fields are populated. Usability of this button gets impacted based on configuration in call center config (Prevent adding new credit card if the balance due is zero). PAYMENT tab > ADD GIFT CARD section Click the ADD, RESET buttons customerservice::order::create customerservice::order::edit It allows you to add and reset the gift card details. Enabled once all mandatory fields are populated. Disabled if the balance due is 0 or less. PAYMENT tab > ADD E-CHECK section Select the SAME AS SHIPPING ADDRESS check box NA Copies the available shipping address in order to the billing address PAYMENT tab > ADD E-CHECK section Select the ADD, RESET buttons customerservice::order::create customerservice::order::edit It allows you to add and reset e-check. Enabled once all mandatory fields are populated. Disabled if the balance due is 0 or less. PAYMENT tab > USED PAYMENT OPTIONS section Click the EDIT button customerservice::order::edit It allows you to edit the payment details. <more conditions> PAYMENT Tab > USED PAYMENT OPTIONS section Click the Suspend button customerservice::order::edit It allows you to suspend the card. Enabled as long as the card is not suspended. PAYMENT tab > AVAILABLE PAYMENT OPTIONS section Click the ADD button customerservice::order::create customerservice::order::edit It allows you to add available payment details for the customer. PAYMENT TAB > PAY BY LINK Leave Order Button customerservice::order::exitorderforpaybylink It allows you to leave the order after sending the pay by link to the customer. PAYMENT TAB > PAY BY LINK Copy URL Button customerservice::order::copypaybylinkurl It allows you to copy the pay by link URL to a clipboard PAYMENT tab Click the PROCEED TO SUMMARY button NA It navigates you to the Summary tab. Enabled only once shipping and payment details are provided for the order. Override Payment Method Click hyperlink to toggle between payment methods customerservice::order::discountoverridepaymentmethod Enables you to toggle between an electronic gift card and the original payment method SUMMARY tab Click the PLACE ORDER button customerservice::order::create Place order confirms an unconfirmed order. It also gets impacted based on mod type (Order::Confirmed) SUMMARY tab Click the CONFIRM CHANGES button customerservice::order::create customerservice::order::edit Confirming changes, calls payment request for immediate authorization if any. Order Line Filter Click on the funnel icon customerservice::order::orderlinefilter It allows you to access the order line filter, which is helpful for orders with a significant number of order lines. Order Line Panel Click -/+ in the Quantity field customerservice::order::edit It allows you to increase/decrease the quantity. The behavior of this field is also impacted by mod type (Quantity::Increase, Quantity::Decrease) Order Line Panel Click the UPDATE QTY button customerservice::order::create customerservice::order::edit This updates the quantity changes made on order lines. The button is disabled if the order is fulfilled or canceled. Order Line Panel - Gift Select the YES / NO link customerservice::order::create customerservice::order::edit Toggles the gift flag for the line. Order Line Panel Click the Add Service link NA Opens the value added service pop-up Order Line click the icon See grants defined for order notes under the Order Header section of this document. The same grants apply to the Order Line. See information for order notes under the Order Header section of this document. The same information applies to the Order Line. Order Line click the  icon NA Opens the price override popup Order Line click the  icon customerservice::order::edit Opens delete or cancel pop-up based on several conditions. The behavior of this icon also depends on mod type (OrderLine::Cancel) and call center config parameter (Cancel All Eligible Quantities) Order Header Select the Order Type from the drop-down customerservice::order::edit It allows you to change the order type for the order. The behavior is also impacted by mod type (Order::OrderType) Order Header Click the COUPONS link NA Displays the coupons pop-up window. Order Header Click the PROMOTIONS link NA Displays the promotions pop-up window. Order Header Click the APPEASEMENTS link NA Displays the appeasements pop-up window. Order Header - Rain Drop Menu Click the CANCEL menu button customerservice::order::cancel Displays the cancel pop-up window to cancel the order. The behavior is also impacted by mod type (Order::Cancel) Order Header - Rain Drop Menu Click the HOLD menu button customerservice::order::hold Displays the hold pop-up window to hold the order. The behavior is also impacted by mod type (Order::Hold::Apply) Order Header - Rain Drop Menu Click the UNHOLD menu button customerservice::order::hold Displays when an order has atleast one hold applied. Provides capability to unhold the order. The behavior is also impacted by mod type (Order::Hold::Resolve) Order Header - Rain Drop Menu Click the ORDER TIMELINE menu button customerservice::order::audit::view Displays order timeline pop-up window. Order Header - Rain Drop Menu Click the Tax Exemption menu button customerservice::order::tax-exempt To enable the Tax Exemption menu and the APPLY button in the tax exemption pop-up window Order Header Click the icon customerservice::order::edit Displays the Order Notes pop-up window. This is a universal grant that allows you to add/edit/delete order notes. Order Header Click the icon customerservice::order::note::view It allows you to view order notes. May be used if the universal grant is not used (customerservice::order::edit). Can be used as an exclusion grant; see Exclusion Grants and Order Notes, below. Order Header Click the  icon customerservice::order::note::add It allows you to view and add order notes. May be used if the universal grant is not used (customerservice::order::edit). Can be used as an exclusion grant; see Exclusion Grants and Order Notes, below. Order Header Click the  icon customerservice::order::note::edit It allows you to view and edit order notes. May be used if the universal grant is not used (customerservice::order::edit). Can be used as an exclusion grant; see Exclusion Grants and Order Notes, below. Order Header Click the  icon customerservice::order::note::delete It allows you to view and delete order notes. May be used if the universal grant is not used (customerservice::order::edit). Can be used as an exclusion grant; see Exclusion Grants and Order Notes, below. Order Header - Charges Section - Next to Estimated S&H Click the icon NA Displays the SnH charge override pop-up window. Order Header - Charges Section Click the Add more items to the order link customerservice::order::create customerservice::order::edit Navigates you to the item search screen, so that you can add more items to the current order OVERRIDE S&H CHARGES pop-up window Click the Apply button customerservice::order::override-snh It allows you to apply the S&H override. The behavior is also impacted by mod type (Order::ChargeDetail::Shipping::Override::Apply) OVERRIDE S&H CHARGES pop-up window Select the Recalculate S&H Charges check box NA It allows you to remove S&H charge overrides. Enabled if SnH charges are overridden OVERRIDE PRICE pop-up window Click the Apply button customerservice::order::override-price It allows you to apply any price overrides on the customer order line. The behavior is also impacted by mod type (orderline::priceoverride::apply) OVERRIDE PRICE pop-up window Select the Revert To Original Price check box customerservice::order::override-price It allows you to revert to the original price. Enabled only if price is overridden. The behavior is also impacted by mod type (orderline::priceoverride::apply) Cancel Order pop-up window Click the DONE button customerservice::order::cancel It allows you to cancel the order. Hold Order pop-up window Click the DONE button customerservice::order::hold It allows you to hold the order. COUPONS pop-up window Click the APPLY button customerservice::order::coupon::apply It allows you to apply coupons on the customer order. COUPONS pop-up window Click the REMOVE button customerservice::order::coupon::apply It allows you to remove coupons on the customer order. Behavior will be impacted by mod type (Order::ChargeDetail::Coupon::Remove) APPEASEMENTS - HEADER Click the funnel icon customerservice::order:appeasementfilter It allows you to apply the order line filter within the appeasement popup. APPEASEMENTS - Header Click the ADD button customerservice::order::appeasement::apply Expands to add appeasement details at the order header and order line level. Behavior will be impacted by mod type (Order::ChargeDetail::Appeasement::Apply) APPEASEMENTS - Header Click the ADD button customerservice::order::appeasement::orderheader It allows you to apply appeasements only at the order header level. APPEASEMENTS - Header Click the APPLY button customerservice::order::appeasement::apply Allows you to apply header appeasements APPEASEMENTS - Header Click the  icon customerservice::order::appeasement::apply Allows you to remove the applied line appeasement Behavior will be impacted by mod type (Order::ChargeDetail::Appeasement::Remove) APPEASEMENTS - Each Line Click the ADD button customerservice::order::appeasement::apply Expands to add appeasement details at the order header and order line level Behavior will be impacted by mod type (OrderLine::ChargeDetail::Appeasement::Add) APPEASEMENTS - Each Line Click the ADD button customerservice::order::appeasement::orderline It allows you to apply appeasements only at the order line level. APPEASEMENTS - Each Line Click the APPLY button customerservice::order::appeasement::apply Allows you to apply line level appeasement APPEASEMENTS - Each Line Click the  icon customerservice::order::appeasement::apply Allows you to remove the applied line appeasement Behavior will be impacted by mod type (OrderLine::ChargeDetail::Appeasement::Remove) PROMOTIONS Apply promotions customerservice::order::promotion::apply It allows you to apply or remove promotions on the customer order. Update Customer Details For pop-up window Click the SAVE button customerservice::order::create customerservice::order::edit Saves the customer details. Update Customer Details For pop-up window Select the Save updated address information check box NA You can select this to save address information for customers. Update Customer Details For pop-up window Select the Save updated payment information check box NA You can select this to save payment information for customers. Register Customer  pop-up window Click the SAVE button customerservice::order::create customerservice::order::edit Registers the customer with given selections Register Customer pop-up window Select the Save Address Information check box NA You can select this to save address information for the newly registered customer. Register Customer pop-up window Select the Save Payment Information check box NA You can select this to save payment information for the newly registered customer. Order Line Value Added Services pop-up window Click the SAVE button customerservice::order::vas::apply It allows you to add a value-added service to the order line. Order Line Value Added Services pop-up window Click an existing value added service and the  icon customerservice::order::vas::override Displays the override details to override the value-added service charges Email id change/edit for digital good The email option within the delivery options section is auto-selected when a digital good line item is selected for edit customerservice::order::email::edit This grant is required to access the “USE THIS” button on the edit order page to edit/change an email Id. View Alternate Pickup Person button and details View the ADD ALTERNATE PICKUP PERSON button (if no alternate pick up person available)  OR View the alternate pick up person details for a store ( (if alternate pick up person is available) customerservice::order::alternatepickupperson::view This grant determines whether the contact center agent can see the option to add or view an alternate pickup person. If the contact center agent lacks this grant, they will not see the section at all. Add/edit Alternale Pickup Person Click on the  ADD ALTERNATE PICKUP PERSON button Click on the  EDIT  button for alternate pick up person customerservice::order::alternatepickupperson::update This grant allows the contact center agent to add or edit an alternate pickup person for a store. Delete Alternate Pickup Person Click on the  DELETE  button for alternate pick up person customerservice::order::alternatepickupperson::delete This grant enables the contact center agent to delete an alternate pickup person if one has already been assigned. Transaction List Location Action Resource(s) Comments Transaction List screen Access Transaction List screen customerengagementfacade::view Allows you to view the list of orders. This can be accessed from CSR Home screen. Customer Metrics, Lifetime View View the Customer's Lifetime Metric customerservice::customer-dashboard::metrics::view-lifetime-value Allows agent to view the customer's lifetime value on the Transaction List Customer Metrics, Appeasements View the Customer's Appeasement Metrics customerservice::customer-dashboard::metrics::view-appeasements Allows agent to view the customer's appeasement metrics (appeasement total dollar value, total number of appeasements) Customer Metrics, Price Sensitivity View the Customer's Price Sensitivity Metric customerservice::customer-dashboard::metrics::view-price-sensitivity Allows agent to view how often the customer pays full price. Customer Metrics, Click to View Averages View the Customer's Click to View Average Metric customerservice::customer-dashboard::metrics::view-click-to-ship-average Allows agent to view the customer's metric for click to view average Customer Metrics, Fulfillment Exceptions View the Customer's Fulfillment Exceptions Metric customerservice::customer-dashboard::metrics::view-fulfillment-exceptions Allows agent to view how often the customer has experienced fulfillment exceptions TRANSACTIONS Select the ALL, ORDERS, RETURNS, EXCHANGES, STORE SALE check box as required NA It allows you to view the specific order categories. TRANSACTION DETAILS Click the Order Status link NA Navigates you to the Order status screen. TRANSACTION DETAILS Click the Edit menu button NA Navigates you to the edit order screen. TRANSACTION DETAILS Click the Return menu button customerservice::returnorder::create Navigates you to the create return screen.Allows the user to create a return order. TRANSACTION DETAILS Click the Cancel menu button customerservice::order::cancel Displays the pop-up window to cancel orders. It allows the user to cancel the order. The behavior also depends on mod type (Order::Cancel). TRANSACTION DETAILS Click the Hold menu button customerservice::order::hold Displays the pop-up window to hold order The behavior also depends on mod type (Order::Hold::Apply). TRANSACTION DETAILS Click the UnHold menu button customerservice::order::hold Displays the pop-up window to unhold order. Enabled when there is at-least one hold applied on order. Behavior also depends on mod type (Order::Hold::Apply) TRANSACTION DETAILS Click the Order Timeline menu button customerservice::order::audit::view Displays the order timeline pop-up window Order Line Filter Click on the funnel icon customerservice::order::orderlinefilter Allows you to access the order line filter for the order selected on the Customer Transaction UI. View Alternate Pickup Person  details View the alternate pickup person details for a store (if an alternate pick up person is available) customerservice::order::alternatepickupperson::view This grant allows the contact center agent to view the  alternate pickup person details for a store in the planned and inprogress shipments section. Raindrop menu - Send Invoices Click the Send Invoices button customerservice::order::Sendinvoices If the agent has the necessary Resource Id , the send invoices button is visible. If the Resource Id is not available, the button remains hidden. Customer Notes Location Action Resource(s) Comments Transaction List screen Access customer notes customerservice::customer::note::view This grant allows the user to view the customer notes icon as well as actual customer notes. Transaction List screen Access customer notes customerservice::customer::note::admin This is a universal grant that allows the user to add/ edit/ delete customer notes. Transaction List screen Edit customer notes customerservice::customer::note::edit This grant allows the user to edit customer notes. They must still have the 'view' grant to access the records. Customer Profile Location Action Resource(s) Comments Transaction List screen Edit customer profile customerservice::customer::customer-profile::edit-customer-profile This resource gives access to the user to edit the customer data on the customer profile page. Transaction List screen Access customer profile customerservice::customer::customer-profile::view-customer-profile This resource enables the user to access the customer profile through the three blue dots. Order/Return Status Location Action Resource(s) Comments Order Status screen Access order status screen customerengagementfacade::view Allows you to view order status Can be accessed from CSR Home screen Transaction List screen Order Line Filter Click on the funnel icon customerservice::order::orderlinefilter Allows you to access the order line filter, which is helpful for orders with a significant number of order lines. ITEMS Click the  icon NA Displays the header notes pop-up window Each Line Click the   icon NA Displays the line notes pop-up window Rain drop menu Click the Edit menu button NA Navigates you to the edit order screen. Rain drop menu Click the Return menu button customerservice::returnorder::create Navigates you to the create return screen. Rain drop menu Click the Cancel menu button customerservice::order::cancel customerservice::returnorder::cancel Displays the cancel pop-up window to cancel the order. The behavior is also impacted by mod type (Order::Cancel) Rain drop menu Click the Hold menu button customerservice::order::hold Displays the hold pop-up window to hold the order. The behavior is also impacted by mod type (Order::Hold::Apply) Rain drop menu Click the UnHold menu button customerservice::order::hold Displayed when an order has at-least one hold applied. Provides capability to unhold the order. The behavior is also impacted by mod type (Order::Hold::Resolve) Rain drop menu Click the Order Timeline menu button customerservice::order::audit::view Displays the order timeline pop-up window Rain drop menu Click the Resend Emails menu button customerservice::order::transactional-emails This is a Resource Id to be able to access the Resend emails pop-up using the menu entry on the order status page. This helps the CSR to resend an email that was previously sent to the customer. Raindrop menu - Send Invoices Click the Send Invoices button customerservice::order::Sendinvoices If the agent has the necessary Resource Id , the send invoices button is visible. If the Resource Id is not available, the button remains hidden. Return line Click the APPROVE RETURN button customerservice::returnorderline::approve It allows you to approve the return line which is pending approval.The button appears in scenarios where the receipt expected is false. Click approve to process the line for return. The button is enabled only if the return line status is in Pending Approval (13000) Return line Click YES, NO link customerservice::returnorderline::modifyreceiptexpected Controls editability of the receipt expected flag during return/exchange creation. Return Status header - rain drop menu Click the PROCESS menu button customerservice::returnorder::process It allows the user to immediately process the return order without waiting for the items to be returned. The button will be accessible based on the following conditions: There should be at-least one line for pending approval (13000) The order should be confirmed Return Status header - rain drop menu Click the RESEND LABELS menu button customerservice::returnorder::resendlabel It allows you to resend the return label on need basis. Return Status header - rain drop menu Click the Mark as Received menu button customerservice::returnorder::mark-as-received It enables you to close the return and mark the order as received. It moves the items to the final status if the items were never received. View Alternate Pickup Person  details View the alternate pickup person details for a store (if an alternate pick up person is available) customerservice::order::alternatepickupperson::view This grant allows the contact center agent to view the  alternate pickup person details for a store in the planned and inprogress shipments section. Order Exceptions Summary View the summarized exceptions identified during the order lifecycle customerservice::order::exceptionsummary This grant allows the contact center agent to view the summarized exceptions highlighted on the order audit. Create Return Location Action Resource(s) Comments Create Return screen Access the create return screen customerengagementfacade::view It allows you to create a return order. Can be accessed from Transaction List screen Order Status screen Though the page can be accessed by customerengagementfacade::view, the buttons that take you to this screen are protected with customerservice::returnorder::create resource ORDERED ITEMS Select the Return option NA It allows you to return an item. Several other factors impact this option, which includes items fulfillment status, items isReturn field and returnable quantity. ORDERED ITEMS Select the Exchange - Same Style option NA It allows you  to exchange the item for the same style. Several other factors impact this option, which includes items fulfillment status, items isReturn field and returnable quantity. ORDERED ITEMS Select the Exchange - New Style option NA It allows you to exchange the item for a new style. Several other factors impact this option, which includes item fulfillment status, items isReturn field and returnable quantity. ORDERED ITEMS Click theicon next to Return to display the Make It Returnable pop-up window. Click the Done button. customerservice::nonreturnableitems::override Provides the capability to override return status if an item is not returnable. It allows the user to override non-returnable items to returnable. ORDERED ITEMS Click the  icon next to Exchange - Same Style to display the Make It Exchangeable pop-up window. Click the Done button customerservice::nonexchangableitems::override Provides the capability to override exchange if an item is not exchangeable. It allows the user to override non-exchangeable items to exchangeable. ORDERED ITEMS - Footer Click the RETURN ALL button NA Initiates returns on all the returnable lines ORDERED ITEMS - Footer - EXCHANGE ALL link Click the SAME STYLE menu button NA Initiates same style exchange on all exchangeable lines ORDERED ITEMS - Footer - EXCHANGE ALL link Click the NEW STYLE menu button NA Initiates new style exchange on all exchangeable lines Confirm Return Age Override Popup Provide a Reason (if applicable). Click Proceed Anyway to accept the return past aging date. Click Cancel to return to the Create Return page and not accept the aged product. customerservice::returnorder::agingdateoverride The Confirm Override popup is displayed if the user's role has the grant to override the aging date. This allows the user to return an order that is past the date allowed. The user can provide a reason code for accepting the aged product. ORDERED ITEMS - Footer Click the DONE button customerservice::returnorder::create Adds the selected lines to the new return order Returns - Return All Select Reason from the drop-down NA Applies reason to all return lines Returns - Return All Select Condition from the drop-down NA Applies condition to all return lines Returns - Each Line Select +/- for the Return Qty NA Helps increase or decrease the return quantity This feature behavior is impacted by returnable and return quantity. Returns - Each Line - Receipt expected Click YES, NO link NA Helps you to mark if a receipt is expected or not. The behavior of link is impacted by Call Center Config - Receipt Expected Returns - Each Line Select Reason from the drop-down NA Select a reason for returning a line Returns - Each Line Select Condition from the drop-down NA Select a condition for the return line Returns - Footer Click the UPDATE QTY button NA Updates the quantity that is changed. Returns - Footer Click the PROCEED TO REVIEW button NA Navigates to review screen. Exchange - Each Line - Price override icon Click the icon orderline::priceoverride::apply It allows you to override the price for new style exchange lines. The icon's behavior is impacted by Call Center Config - Allow overrides on new style exchange Returns Click the EDIT button NA EXCHANGE SUMMARY Section - Fees Click the icon customerservice::returnorder::overridefee Note: This grant is only for the old returns experience screen Displays the waive fee pop-up window. It allows you to apply or revert the return fee override. EXCHANGE SUMMARY Section - Estimated S&H Override Click the  icon NA It allows you to override S&H charges. The icon's behavior is impacted by Call Center Config - Allow overrides on new style exchange SHIP TO ADDRESS - Address Section Click the EDIT link NA Enables you to add ship to address for exchange lines. SHIP TO ADDRESS - SHIPPING METHOD Section Click the EDIT link NA Enables you to update methods for exchange lines. RETURN ITEMS FROM - Address Section Click the EDIT link NA Enables you to update return from address RETURN ITEMS FROM - SHIPPING METHOD Section Click the EDIT link NA Enables you to edit return shipping method RETURN CENTER Click the EDIT link NA Enables you to update the return center Override Payment Method Click hyperlink to Toggle between payment methods customerservice::returnorder::overridepaymentmethod Enables you to toggle between electronic gift card and original payment method Returns Screen - Footer CONFIRM RETURN NA Confirms the return order. Returns Screen - Footer CANCEL RETURN NA Displays the pop-up window to cancel return order Edit Return Location Action Resources Comments Rain Drop Menu Allows you to access Edit return or Edit button in the rain drop menu within the Return/exchange status page. customerservice::returns::editreturn From the Rain Drop Menu, the user can select the 'Edit Return' Action for a return order Edit Return UI, choose the pencil icon next to 'Fees'. Allows you to waive fees for returns that have been confirmed customerservice::returns::waivefees Note: This grant is only for the new returns experience screen To access the UI for waiving fees through the return status page and manage return waive fees in the edit return summary, the user must have the necessary grant to edit returns (customerservice::returns::editreturn). Configurations Configuration Resource(s) (View and Update) Menu Comments Call Center Configuration masterdatafacade::customerservice::customerserviceuiconfig::read masterdatafacade::customerservice::customerserviceuiconfig::createupdate Omnifacade menu > Manage Call Center Configuration > Call Center Configuration It allows you to configure call center related configurations. Store Locator Maps masterdatafacade::customerservice::storelocatormapuiconfig::read masterdatafacade::customerservice::customerserviceuiconfig::createupdate Omnifacade menu > Manage Call Center Configuration > System Data > Store Locator Maps It allows you to configure store locator maps configuration. Address Verification Services masterdatafacade::customerservice::avsgatewayattribute::read masterdatafacade::customerservice::customerserviceuiconfig::createupdate Omnifacade menu > Manage Call Center Configuration > System Data > Address Verification Services Allows you to configure address verification services Customer service insights Dashboard Resource(s) Comments customerservice::customerserviceinsightsdashboard::view api::inventoryfacade::insightsmetrics inventoryfacade::customerserviceinsightsdashboard Ensure the logged-in user has the following grants to access the Customer Service Insights Dashboard Get Grants for Users and Roles Resource(s) Comments organization::grant::read API: /organization/api/organization/grant This resource is a core service, which includes the ability to get a grant by Role Id & Resource Id, the ability to get a grant by Primary Key, and the ability to export the grant. organization::grant::read-getlistforuser API : /organization/api/organization/grant/list/grantsForUser/{userId} This resource is a core service used to get a list of grants for a given user. organization::grant::read-getusergrantforresourceandorg API : /organization/api/organization/grant/organizationId/{organizationId}/resourceId/{resourceId} This Resource is a core service used to get grants for a user based on Role Id & Resource Id. Customerservice::order::create Grant & Hierarchy The ability to create orders may be defined for a child organization level only. This minimizes the likelihood that orders are created for the wrong organization or wrong organization level only. Retailers may choose to define the customerservice::order::create grant at the child level only, or maintain the grant for both parent and child organizations, depending on their needs. Exclusion Grant: Exclusion of specific resources within the grant’s domain If only a certain specific grant needs to be excluded for a user/role while providing an overarching grant - the specific grant that needs to be excluded can be configured in exclusion grants after providing the overarching (parent) grant for the role. For example, consider assigning the grant ResourceId=“customerservice::order::*“ to a user, but if we want to restrict the user's from creating a new order controlled by the grant (customerservice::order::create”), retailers can configure exclusion grant record with: ExcludedResourceId=”customerservice::order::create” entry for the parent grant : ResourceId=”customerservice::order::*“”. API: POST {{URL}}/organization/api/organization/grant/save { "RoleId": "Tier2CSR", "OrganizationId": "globalorg-us", "ResourceId": "customerservice::order::*", "ExclusionGrant": [ { ExcludedResourceId: "customerservice::order::create" } ] } The exclusion grant can be configured from MUP UI: Organizations > Organization > Role > Grant > Exclusion Grants and click on Add button When the system's grant's domain validates whether the user can access a resource or not, the system also checks if any exclusion grants have been configured. If any exclusion grants are configured, the system will restrict access to the resources controlled by the excluded grant - but will allow access to other resources controlled by the parent grant. Exclusion Grants and Order Notes The ability to create, view, edit and delete order notes is governed by the following grant: customerservice::order::edit. This grant also allows users to perform other key functions, such as modifying an order's shipping address, adding items and updating item quantities. If an organization wants to allow a user to edit an order, but prohibit some order note actions, define exclusion grants for the order note functions that are prohibited. Function that user should not complete: Exclusion grant to apply: View Order Note customerservice::order::note::view Create Order Note customerservice::order::note::add Edit Order Note customerservice::order::note::edit Delete Order Note customerservice::order::note::delete Note: Exclusion Grants are valid only for its parent grant, not for the other grants that a user may have.