# Customer Engagement Configurations

**Permalink:** customer_engagement_configurations
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Order Management/Process & Configuration Guides/Order Promising/Customer Engagement Configurations
**Content Length:** 32,450 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:55:54.454221

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Order Management››Process & Configuration Guides››Order Promising ››Customer Engagement Configurations Customer Engagement Configurations Interaction Type ConfigurationAuto Response to Incoming EmailsCase Archive ConfigurationInteraction Retention ConfigurationEmail Log Retention ConfigurationSocial Retention ConfigurationCase Template Constant ConfigurationConfiguring Case Category Attributes as MandatoryCreating Team and Assigning Users Queue ConfigurationCustomer Interaction ConfigurationLanguage-Based Routing ConfigurationUser Locale ConfigurationQueue ConfigurationInteraction ConfigurationInteraction Org MappingConfiguration for SMS OTPMiscues Metric ConfigurationAppeasement Metric Configuration Interaction Type Configuration The different types of interaction that can be wrapped up in the Interaction wrap up panel can be configured using the Customer Engagement configuration. To configure interaction wrap up types, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Manage Customer Engagement Configuration > Customer Engagement Configuration. In the Customer Engagement Configuration page, click Add or select the required configuration and click View. In the Interaction Types tab, click Add. In the Interaction Types dialog box, select the Interaction Type ID as phone, Email or Chat. Select the Display Sequence. The sequence in which the interaction type should be displayed on the Interaction Wrap Up Panel is defined here. Select Is Default to indicate the interaction type as the default interaction type. Click Save. Auto Response to Incoming Emails Cases are created on receiving emails from the customers for future reference. The Auto Response to Incoming Emails feature enables the contact center agent to send an automatic reply to the customers to confirm the receipt of the email. Refer Automatic Response for Emails for more information. To configure case configuration, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Manage Customer Engagement Configuration > Case Configuration. In the Case Configuration page, click Add or select the required configuration and click View. In the Detail tab, enter the config ID and select the Send Automatic Replies check box to trigger the auto response email. In the Case Configuration Origin tab, click Add and select the Case Configuration Origin as Email, and then click Save. Note: Automatic replies for only case origin email is supported. Case Archive Configuration The Case Archive Configuration enables you to set the retention days for case archival in Customer Engagement. Refer Customer Engagement Purge and Archival for more information. To configure case archive, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu  > Application Configuration > Manage Customer Engagement Configuration > Case Archive Configuration In the Case Archive Configuration page, select the configuration and you can perform the following actions: Deselect - Click Deselect to deselect the selected case archive configuration Details - Click Details to view the config Id, number of retention days, date on which the configuration was created, and the last updated date. Click Edit to modify the number of days. Edit - Click Edit to modify the number of days. After updating the configuration, click Save to save the changes or click Cancel to exit the page without saving the changes. Interaction Retention Configuration The Interaction Retention Configuration enables you to set the retention days for independent interactions that are not associated with any case Ids in Customer Engagement. Refer Purge Configuration for more information. To configure interaction retention, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu  > Application Configuration > Manage Customer Engagement Configuration > Interaction Retention Configuration In the Interaction Retention Configuration page, select the configuration and you can perform the following actions: Deselect - Click Deselect to deselect the selected interaction retention configuration Details - Click Details to view the config Id, number of retention days, date on which the configuration was created, and the last updated date. Click Edit to modify the number of retention days. Edit - Click Edit to modify the retention days. After updating the configuration, click Save to save the changes or click Cancel to exit the page without saving the changes. Email Log Retention Configuration The Email Log Retention Configuration enables you to set the retention days for email logs in Customer Engagement. Refer Purge Configuration for more information. To configure email log retention, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu  > Application Configuration > Manage Customer Engagement Configuration > Email Log Retention Configuration In the Email Log Retention Configuration page, select the configuration and you can perform the following actions: Deselect - Click Deselect to deselect the selected email log configuration Details - Click Details to view the config Id, number of retention days, date on which the configuration was created, and the last updated date. Click Edit to modify the number of retention days. Edit - Click Edit to modify the retention days. After updating the configuration, click Save to save the changes or click Cancel to exit the page without saving the changes. Social Retention Configuration The Social Retention Configuration enables you to set the retention days for social data in Customer Engagement. Refer Purge Configuration for more information. To configure social retention, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu  > Application Configuration > Manage Customer Engagement Configuration > Social Retention Configuration In the Social Retention Configuration page, select the configuration and you can perform the following actions: Deselect - Click Deselect to deselect the selected social retention configuration Details - Click Details to view the config Id, number of retention days, date on which the configuration was created, and the last updated date. Click Edit to modify the number of retention days. Edit - Click Edit to modify the retention days. After updating the configuration, click Save to save the changes or click Cancel to exit the page without saving the changes. Case Template Constant Configuration Constant message template enables contact center agent to set constant messages such as season greetings, store timings, seasonal offers, and so on. On selecting this template, the constant message can be repopulated while replying to emails. Refer to Pre-Populate Dynamic Variables and Constants in email response templates for more details. To configure case template constant, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Manage Customer Engagement Configuration > Case Template Constant In the Case Template Constant page, click Create or select the required configuration and click Edit. In the Case Template Constant Details page, enter the name for the template and the message that you want to convey in the value field. For example, enter Christmas_Greetings as the name and Wishing you a Merry Christmas as the value. Note: The name of the template cannot contain spaces. Configuring Case Category Attributes as Mandatory The Case UI Display configuration page enables you to set the case detail fields as mandatory. Refer Mandatory Case Columns for more details. To configure case category attributes as mandatory, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Case UI Display Config Click Create to open the Case UI Display Config page. Select Case Category Id and the attribute which you want to mark as mandatory. Select the Mandatory check box and click Save. Note: The fields that are set as mandatory will be displayed on the Case List UI with an asterisk(*) indicating it as a required field. Make sure you enter the required fields. Creating Team and Assigning Users The Teams UI enables you to create and manage teams and assign users to the team.  During case creation, if a user selects a team, then the assignee drop-down displays only users assigned to that team. To create a team, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Manage Customer Engagement Configuration > Team On the Teams page, click Create. In the Create New Team page, enter the team ID and name for the team. Select Is Active option as yes or no as required. Select the Organization ID from the drop-down and click Save and Continue. In the Add Users to the Team page, click Add to add a new user to the team. Select the Organization ID and User ID and click Submit. Click Save and Finish to save and complete the setup. If required, to identify a Team as eligible for transferring interactions from CSR Agent Inbox add Attribute Key and Attribute Value for Example- Attribute Key : "Escalation Team" Attribute Value : "True" Attribute Key : "Escalation Team" Attribute Value : "True" - are mandatory values for transfer feature and any other key & value pair will not make the team eligible for transfer. Queue Configuration The Queue configuration feature enables you to define queue and routing rules based on which the customers will be routed to the specific queues and user group. Refer here for more details. To set up the queue configuration and routing rules, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Manage Customer Engagement Configuration > Queue Configuration The existing queue configurations will be displayed on the Queue Configuration page. Select the existing configuration and you can perform the following actions as required To view the queue and routing configuration Click View to display the Queues and Routing page. You can see the unique identifier and the description of the queue configuration. To Add/Edit Rules Click Add/Edit Rules to display the Queues and Routing page. You can see the unique identifier and the description of the queue configuration. Click Save and Continue, and then click Create to create a queue and routing rule configuration. Enter the queue name and select the user group. Select All or Any option from the Match drop-down to set the conditions to route the customer issues. Select the attribute based on which you want to set the condition from the following options, such as case category, case origin, case sub category, interaction type, or interaction type Id Select the operator and value, and then click Save and Finish. To de-select the queue and routing configuration Click Deselect to deselect the configuration Customer Interaction Configuration This configuration controls the interaction types enabled in customer engagement. To configure the desired interactions, follow these steps: Navigate to Menu > POS Customer Engagement Configuration > Customer Interaction Configuration. On the Customer Interaction Configuration page, select ADD button. Select the "View Virtual Assistant" checkbox to enable chatbot. Select "View Chat" to enable live chat. Select "View Email" to enable the email interaction type. Select "View PhoneLog" to enable viewing the phone log. Select "View Text" to enable text message interaction type. Select "View Social" to enable social media. Select "Collect Opt In Preferences" to turn on the collection of opt-in data specifically for 2 way communication methods of email, phone and text. Select "Show Interaction" to turn Interactions on both the customer record screen and the home screen and Users drop-down menu. Click Save. Language-Based Routing Configuration User Locale Configuration Agents can be assigned multiple languages via the Available Locales setting in the User Configuration. To configure the available user locale, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Master Data > Manage Security > Users. Select the required user and click View. In the Available User Locale tab, select Add, and then select the desired locale ID from the options. Queue Configuration Enable Use Language Preference for Agent Assignment to ensure that the system considers language compatibility along with agent availability and capacity while selecting agents within the team. To configure the use language preference for agent assignment, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Customer Engagement Configuration > Queue Configuration. Select the existing configuration and click Add/Edit Rules. You can see the unique identifier and the description of the queue configuration. Click Save and Continue, and then click Create to create a queue and routing rule configuration. Enter the queue name and select the team(s). Select the User Language Preference for Agent Assignment as yes to consider language compatibility along with agent availability during case routing. Interaction Configuration Enable the Detect Locale flag to allow automatic language detection for email interactions. To configure the Detect Locale flag for email interaction, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Customer Engagement Configuration > Interaction Configuration. Select the existing configuration and click Edit. In the Interaction Type Configuration section of the Interaction Configuration page, click Add, and then set the interaction type as Email and the Detect Locale as Yes. Note: This feature applies only to email interactions and is not applicable for chat or text messages. Interaction Org Mapping Map locales to phone numbers to enable language-based routing for text interactions. To enable loanguage-based routing for text interactions, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Customer Engagement Configuration > Interaction Org Mapping. Click Create to create a new interaction org mapping configuration. Select the Org Id and Interaction Type ID as phone. Enter the interaction source. Select the locale Id for the corresponding interaction source phone number, and then click Save. Configuration for SMS OTP To send OTP via text, setup Twillio account and Text Component Configuration as usual. Save your Twillio FromPhone in your tenant KV store for the Customer Interaction component by setting the following key-value pair. Key: customerinteraction.sms.otp.from.phone Value: _yourTwillioToPhone_ (example: 16786711789) To configure the text component, login to KV Store> config> select the text component (for example, com-manh-cp-text,antjain01), and the create the following key-value pair Key : text.config Value :[{ "organization": "Provide organixation ex:globalorg-us", "user":"provide user id", "text.auth.key":"provide the text.auth.key ", "text.auth.sid":"provide text.auth.sid "}] For Example : [{ "organization": "globalorg-us", "user":"ceadmin@globalorg-us.com", "text.auth.key":"e16ea1e507507ef56ee2bfdcbaaa8ffd7629b655a6b9cfd03963299ce9863886cd48a7ce860b198a26e3c762c4e5d83fg52d0d3dc785u8b443cc93211474f693", "text.auth.sid":"AC609197f0ce0542d85f3176fd0accg939"}] The below key-value pair is optional. Key : text.server.base.url Value : https://omni-atran01.cp.manh.cloud/ Check email template and text template, and save them if they are not available Text Template for SMS OTPGET:{{url}}/text/api/text/textMsgTemplate/templateMsgId/OneTimePasscodeForAnonymousCustomer POST:{{url}}/text/api/text/textMsgTemplate/save { "Description": "Sends One Time Passcode for customer verification", "TemplateMsgId": "OneTimePasscodeForAnonymousCustomer", "ConditionalExpression": "TextMsgTemplate.TemplateMsgId contains \"OneTimePasscodeForAnonymousCustomer\"", "MessagePrefixInterval": 0, "Name": "One Time Passcode for Anonymous Customer template", "MessagePrefix": null, "MessageSuffixInterval": 0, "SequenceNumber": null, "TextMessageType": { "TextMessageTypeId": "Transactional" }, "MessageBody": "Hi ${TextMsgTemplate.CustomerFirstName},\r\nYour code is: ${TextMsgTemplate.OneTimePasscode}\r\nUse this code to verify your Manhattan Outfitters account. It will expire in 10 minutes." } Email Template for Email OTPGET : {{url}}/email/api/email/emailTemplate/templateId/OneTimePasscodeForAnonymousCustomer POST : {{url}}/email/api/email/emailTemplate/save { "TemplateId": "OneTimePasscodeForAnonymousCustomer", "GroupName": "ChatbotOTP", "LogFailure": true, "Description": "Sends One Time Passcode to a customer when the customer interacts with Chatbot", "ReplyToName": null, "Name": "One Time Passcode for anonymous customer template", "ReplyTo": "cpadmin@manh.com", "FromName": "Manhattan Outfitters", "ConditionExpression": null, "ReferenceField1": null, "ReferenceField2": null, "ReferenceField3": null, "ReferenceField4": null, "ReferenceField5": null, "Subject": "Your Manhattan One-Time Passcode (OTP) for Verification", "FromEmail": "cpadmin@manh.com", "ToAddress": [ { "ToAddressType": { "TypeId": "TO" }, "ToEmail": "${CustomerEmail}", "ToName": "${CustomerFirstName!} ${CustomerLastName!}" } ], "LogSuccess": true, "Body": "<!DOCTYPE html>\r\n<html>\r\n\r\n<body>\r\n    <p>Hi ${CustomerFirstName!},</p>\r\n   <p>Your code is: ${OneTimePasscode}</p>\r\n  <p>Use this code to verify your Manhattan Outfitters account. It will expire in ${ValidDuration!\"10 minutes\"}.</p>\r\n   <p>If you did not request this verification, please ignore this email.</p>\r\n</body>\r\n\r\n</html>" } Navigate to Interaction Configuration>Edit the configuration>Select "Enable SMS OTP Verification" checkbox. This configuration will be disabled by default. Miscues Metric Configuration Miscuse Metric Configuration provides you the ability to set the rules to calculate the miscues metrics, which are displayed on the customer dashboard. To configure the miscues metric configuration,  perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Customer Engagement Configuration > Metric Configuration > Miscues Metric Configuration. Select the existing configuration and click Edit to modify the existing configuration, or you can click Create to add a new configuration. On the Miscue Metric Configuration page, enter the config Id and description of the miscue metric configuration. Select the Misshipped reason and damaged reasons. Select the strategy Id from the following options: Inclusion - To include only the reasons within the misshipped reason and damaged reason sections to calculate the miscued metrics. Exclusion - To exclude the reasons within the misshipped reason and damaged reason sections to calculate the miscued metrics. Click Save to save the configuration. Appeasement Metric Configuration Appeasement Metric Configuration provides you the ability to set the rules to calculate the appeasement metrics, which are displayed on the customer dashboard. To configure the appeasemt metric configuration,  perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Customer Engagement Configuration > Metric Configuration > Appeasement Metric Configuration. Select the existing configuration and click Edit to modify the existing configuration, or you can click Create to add a new configuration. On the Appeasement Metric Configuration page, enter the config Id and description of the appeasement metric configuration. Select the Appeasement Reason, Price Override Reason, Snh Override Reason, and VAS Override Reason Select the strategy Id from the following options: Inclusion - To include only the reasons within the Appeasement Reason, Price Override Reason, Snh Override Reason, and VAS Override Reason sections to calculate the appeasement metrics. Exclusion - To exclude the reasons within the Appeasement Reason, Price Override Reason, Snh Override Reason, and VAS Override Reason sections to calculate the appeasement metrics. Click Save to save the configuration.