# Customer Engagement Dashboard

**Permalink:** customer-engagement-dashboard
**Content Length:** 17,653 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:36:49.489952

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Supply Chain Intelligence&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Supply Chain Intelligence - Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Dashboards ››Customer Engagement Dashboard Customer Engagement Dashboard Filtering DataMetric ResultsVisualizations The Customer Engagement Dashboard provides an extensive and real-time overview of various metrics and activities related to customer case management. This dashboard provides insights that formulate business strategies, enhancing customer satisfaction and optimizing operational efficiency. It focuses on specific aspects, such as&nbsp;case creation, resolutions, appeasements, categories, and priorities. This dashboard captures data for the past 30 days, which you can analyze for your business requirements. The Case Management application provides proactive support to the contact center executives to log customer cases and interactions when they cannot immediately assist during the process. It includes steps such as case creation, assigning priority, case resolution, and recording other crucial information for future reference. The Customer Engagement Dashboard presents an overview of these particulars, contributing to the efficiency of case management and customer engagement processes. You can access this dashboard&nbsp;in IBM Cognos by navigating to&nbsp;Team Content&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;SCI Packaged Content&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Packaged Dashboards&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;OMNI&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Customer Engagement Dashboard. &nbsp; Filtering Data The &lsquo;data selection&rsquo; filter is a feature of the dashboard visualizations; when you select&nbsp;a value in a visualization, the dashboard displays the data for the selected value in all the visualizations. The following table summarizes the filters that you can multi-select in this dashboard: &nbsp; Filter Name Description Customer Type You can select the type of customer based on the loyalty status, such as Bronze, Gold, Platinum, and Silver. Case Priority You can select the priority of the case, such as high, medium, and critical. Case Status You can select the status as Closed,&nbsp;Draft,&nbsp;In-Progress, or Open. Case Created Date You can select a date or date range to view the dashboard data accordingly. Case Resolved Date You can select a date or date range&nbsp;on which cases are resolved. Case Team You can multi-select teams from this filter for which you want to view the overall performance. Assignee First Name If you want to view the performance of an individual(s), search and select the first name(s) from the drop-down. Assignee Last Name Using this filter, you can select the last name of the assignee. Case Category Search and select case categories based on your requirement. Metric Results This dashboard incorporates metrics that allow you to observe meaningful trends in case management. It captures real-time data on case creations, resolutions, appeasements, and other aspects, providing stakeholders and business strategists with the information needed to address gaps or inefficiencies. This section meticulously captures metrics in detail. The following table summarizes these metrics: &nbsp; Metric Name Description Calculation Total Unresolved Cases&nbsp; This metric returns the total number of cases that are not resolved. COUNT (Cases PK) where Case Resolved Date is NULL Avg. Case Resolution Time (Mins) This metric gives the average resolution time i.e. time taken to resolve a case in minutes. The dashboard filters to select only Cases PK where the Case Resolved Date IS NOT NULL.&nbsp; For filtered records, (SUM (Case Resolved Date Time - Case Created Date Time)) / COUNT Cases PK &nbsp; Avg. Cases Created Per Day This metric provides data on the average number of cases&nbsp;resolved on a daily basis. (COUNT Cases PK) / COUNT Case Created Date Time Avg Cases Resolved Per Day This metric provides data on the average number of cases created on a daily basis. The dashboard filters to select only Cases PK where the Case Resolved Date IS NOT NULL.&nbsp; For filtered records, (COUNT Cases PK) / COUNT Case Resolved Date Avg. Appeasement Amount This metric returns the average appeasement of the cases. 1. Considers&nbsp;records where ORD_ORDER_CHARGE_DETAIL.CHARGE_TYPE = Appeasement and pick up records where ORDER_LINE_CHARGE_DETAIL.CHARGE_TYPE = Appeasement 2. SUM(ORD.ORDER_CHARGE_DETAIL.CHARGE_TOTAL) + SUM (ORDER_LINE_CHARGE_DETAIL.CHARGE_TOTAL) 3. Removes the negative (-) sign from the result. 4. Displays average for the above calculated amount Dispute Amt % Paid in Appeasement This metric returns the percentage of the disputed amount. The dashboard filters to select only Cases PK where Case Resolved Date IS NOT NULL.&nbsp; To get appeasement, the dashboard: &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; 1. Considers records where ORD_ORDER_CHARGE_DETAIL.CHARGE_TYPE = Appeasement and pick up records where ORDER_LINE_CHARGE_DETAIL.CHARGE_TYPE = Appeasement 2. Calculates as SUM (ORD.ORDER_CHARGE_DETAIL.CHARGE_TOTAL) + SUM (ORDER_LINE_CHARGE_DETAIL.CHARGE_TOTAL) &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; 3. Removes the - sign from the result.&nbsp; 4. For filtered records, calculate (SUM( Appeasement Amount) &nbsp;for all the cases)/ (SUM Case Dispute Amount) * 100&nbsp; &nbsp; Visualizations The Customer Engagement Dashboard includes the following visualizations: Case Count by Category This section provides a tabular representation of cases created or resolved for each case category, such as Call Back Request, Email, Employee Issue, Credit Card/Debit Card, and more. Using this information, you can assess the workload and efficiency of contact center teams in handling cases across different categories. By depicting cases per their categories, the table contributes to effective resource allocation, ensuring that the right teams and resources are assigned to address specific issues. This customization contributes to a more effective resolution process, ultimately enhancing the customer experience. Cases Created Per Day by Customer Type This visual representation offers a date-wise breakdown of customer-initiated case creation. The x-axis denotes creation dates, while the y-axis quantifies the case count. Within the stacked columns, color variations signify distinct customer types, including Gold, Platinum, and others. Hovering over these columns reveals&nbsp;the specific case count corresponding to each customer type. By analyzing this visualization, you can determine which customer segment has reported the highest issues. This insight facilitates you to implement focused measures, addressing and reducing the occurrence of grievances within that particular customer type. Cases Resolved Per Day by Customer Type This stacked column visualization provides the date-wise information of resolved cases by customer type. The x-axis depicts resolution dates, and the y-axis indicates the case count. The color combinations in the stacked columns signify the customer types. Using this visualization, you can assess and monitor the success rate in addressing the customer cases and take measures to improve the resolution strategies for the customer types exhibiting lower success rates. Cases Created Per Day by Priority This visualization illustrates the daily breakdown of cases distributed by priority levels. The color variations within the stacked columns represent case priorities, including critical, high, medium, and low. The x-axis corresponds to creation dates, while the y-axis reflects the quantity of cases for each day. Decision-makers can utilize this visual representation to scrutinize any unusual spikes or patterns associated with critical or high-priority cases. Promptly detecting such anomalies directs timely intervention and enables proactive management of high-priority issues. &nbsp; Cases Resolved Per Day by Priority This visual representation displays the daily resolution counts categorized by priorities. Examining this visualization allows you to compare the resolution rate against the creation of these cases. It aids in prioritizing critical and high-priority cases, prompting measures to ensure their swift resolution. Additionally, this visualization facilitates the planning of incentive programs for contact center staff, recognizing and encouraging prompt case resolution.