# Returns Shipped to Store

**Permalink:** customer-not-present-store-returns
**Content Length:** 19,457 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:36:25.731401

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Inventory & Fulfillment&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Inventory Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Receiving&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process ››Returns Shipped to Store Returns Shipped to Store OverviewHigh level FlowStore ReceivingExceptionsWrong Store ReceivingQuantity VarianceItem VarianceCondition VarianceUpdatesConfigurationFulfillment Optimization – Return Routing OptimizationInventory Location – Accepts ReturnsItem ConditionsStore Item ConditionsStore Inventory Parameters - Allow receiving of customer not present returns in storesFeature ScopeUIs and EntitiesServicesTroubleshootingYou do not have access to process store returns. Please contact your admin or ask another user for help.Submitted the return order but unable to see any updates in&nbsp;MA Order Management Overview Manhattan&nbsp;Active® Omni Order Management and Manhattan&nbsp;Active® Omni Store Inventory Management&nbsp;enable&nbsp;stores to process returns created through Contact Center or Digital Self Service that are shipped to the store (aka customer not present returns.) MA Order Management&nbsp;utilizes the Dynamic Return Center Optimization to identify an optimized store as a return center facility. Here's how it works: A customer places a return order using&nbsp;Manhattan&nbsp;Active® Omni Digital Self Service or Contact Center. A store is identified as the optimized return center. A return label is generated and emailed to the customer on return order confirmation. The package arrives at store. The store associate verifies the package contents and condition against the return order. MA Order Management&nbsp;process the verification event and initiates the refund if there are no variances. If there are variances, a CSR resolves the variances manually and processes the Return Order. Manhattan&nbsp;Active® Inventory is increased based on the verified&nbsp;condition of the item. High level Flow Once the return order is created in&nbsp;MA&nbsp;Order Management, MA Store Inventory Management will then receive the package, store associate&nbsp;will&nbsp;proceed with verifying the returned items, and send the verification update to MA Order Management to initiate the refund and update the inventory. Store Receiving The Store app enables store associates to receive, verify, and submit the contents of return packages. In order for the return package to be received, a&nbsp;return order must exist in MA Order Management. From the Receive Inventory UI, the store associate scans the return order ID or tracking number from&nbsp;the return label to receive a return package. When a valid return order&nbsp;ID or return label tracking number is scanned, its expected contents are displayed to the associate. The associate scans or taps the item to mark it as received. In addition, the associate enters the item condition for each item. In the event that multiple units of an item are returned and they have different&nbsp;conditions, multiple conditions can be specified for an item. A return order may be received in multiple packages. In the event that some of the return order has already been received in another package,&nbsp;only those lines which are not yet fully received (which are still in Pending Return or Partially Pending Return status) are shown. If a return order is fully received, an error message is displayed. When a return package is submitted, a confirmation is displayed to the store associate. Exceptions Wrong Store Receiving Even if a return package is delivered to an incorrect store, it can still be received. The store associate is prompted with a message stating that the package&nbsp;is intended for another store. However, they can still choose to continue receiving the package at the current store. Note:&nbsp;To allow store associates to continue to have the capability to receive store returns at stores other than the original purchase&nbsp;store, the store associates must be assigned with the&nbsp;grant. This grant will come into effect as a result of a change "SIF - Resource protection for wrong store return" from March 14, 2026, and if needed, retailers may choose to enable it at an earlier date.&nbsp; Quantity Variance If a package contains a quantity variance,&nbsp;a hold is applied on the return order line. Manual intervention by a CSR is required to release the hold and complete the refund. Less than the expected number of units of a given item in the return order Greater than the expected number of units of a given item in the return order but less than the number of units ordered as part of the original parent order Item Variance If a package contains an item variance,&nbsp;a hold is applied on the return order line. Manual intervention by a CSR is required to release the hold and complete the refund. An unexpected item which is a part of the parent order, but not the return order An unexpected item which is not a part of the parent order Condition Variance If a package contains an item whose condition differs from the condition that was specified during creation of the return order, a hold is applied on the return order line. Manual intervention by a CSR is required to release the hold and complete the refund. Note: Return quantity, item and condition variances must be resolved manually. Refer here for more information. Updates When a return package is processed and submitted by a store associate, the following updates occur: A return line verification event is generated which is consumed by MA&nbsp;Order Management to update the return order status to returned, create return invoices, and issue refunds if there are no&nbsp;variances. If a variance exists,&nbsp;the return order line is held&nbsp;and no return invoice is created. Regardless of whether variance exists or not, inventory is incremented to the corresponding&nbsp;supply bucket based on the return&nbsp;item condition. Fulfillments and packages are created through an outbound message that is generated for the Fulfillment component.&nbsp;Entries are also made into the Store Package and Package Receipts entities. Inventory Audit records are created. Note:&nbsp;Returns that are shipped to the store&nbsp;are always verified at the line level, regardless of&nbsp;the existing&nbsp;return verification policy that is specified in Order Configuration. This is identified by&nbsp;"ActiveLocationType" : "ActiveStore" on the Return Order Event for&nbsp;"EventType": "LineVerification". Configuration Fulfillment Optimization – Return Routing Optimization The “Return Routing Optimization” flag needs to be enabled to ensure that customer returns take the most optimized route, including stores. Refer to the “How to configure return routing optimization” configuration for detailed info. This configuration is disabled by default and should be set as true if returns are to be routed through the most optimized route provided the incoming order does not have a pre-determined return facility. Inventory Location – Accepts Returns This configuration is required to be enabled for all those stores which are designated to support customer returns. A return order cannot be created for a location which doesn’t accept returns. This flag is disabled by default and is available in the Details tab. Configuration Name: Inventory Location Item Conditions This configuration defines the mapping between Item Condition and Supply Disposition. It is used to generate the updates to the appropriate supply buckets based on the item conditions captured during receiving. This mapping is null by default and should be defined before enabling store returns. Configuration Name: Item Conditions Note: Supply Disposition ID and Supply Type mapping are housed in the Inventory Disposition Codes. Note:&nbsp;During the return line verification process, if there is no Disposition ID found for the returned item condition in MA Order Management, supply updates are not generated. Store Item Conditions This defines the Item Conditions to display in the Store app. It leverages the Item Conditions entity. To add a new store item condition, first add it to the Item Conditions entity and then add it here. Item Condition Name is the localizable attribute which is displayed in the user's locale. The sequence number defines the order that conditions are displayed in the Condition drop down list in the Store app. Retailers can optionally define a default store item condition. If a default is specified, that value is pre-loaded in the Store app. If a default is not defined, the entry field will load as empty and the user will be forced to select one. Configuration Name: Store Item Conditions Store Inventory Parameters - Allow receiving of customer not present returns in stores This is the master configuration which enables the receipt of return packages in stores. This flag is disabled by default and is available in the Receive Inventory tab of the Store Inventory Parameters UI. Configuration Name: Store Inventory Parameters Feature Scope A return order must exist. Blind returns are not supported. RFID receiving is not supported Pause & resume is not supported while receiving a return order in stores. If a store associate moves away before submitting the receipt, their progress will be lost. In transit package&nbsp;visibility is not supported for return orders. UIs and Entities This document refers to the following UIs. UI Name Component Group Seed Data Present? Seed Data Profile Item Condition Order Order services No Base Store Item Conditions SIM Store Item Conditions Services Yes Base Store Inventory Parameters SIM Store Inventory Parameters Services Yes Base Services The&nbsp;APIs listed in the following table are referenced in this document. Refer to the API documentation for additional details on&nbsp;each service. Service Component Group Service Endpoint SearchOrderAcrossOrgs Order Order services /order/api/order/order/searchOrderAcrossOrganizations ListAndReceive SIM Receiving Controller /sim/api/sim/receiving/receive/listAndReceive Submit SIM Receiving Controller /sim/api/sim/receiving/receive/submit Troubleshooting You do not have access to process store returns. Please contact your admin or ask another user for help. Ensure that the store associate has the required permissions to process customer not present&nbsp;return packages in stores. Refer to the Store Inventory UI Resources page for more details. Submitted the return order but unable to see any updates in&nbsp;MA Order Management Execute the following GET API call. /sim/api/ServiceDefinition/extPointToMessageType?size=50 Ensure that the Sim:Receipt:Event:ReturnOrderLineVerification ExtensionPointId exists. If it doesn’t, make the following POST API call. /sim/api/ServiceDefinition/extPointToMessageType/save Payload: { "ExtensionPointId": "Sim:Receipt:Event:ReturnOrderLineVerification", "MessageType": "ReturnOrderEventMSGType" } Reach out to the Services teams if the issue persists.