# Customer Dashboard Details

**Permalink:** customer-dashboard-details
**Content Length:** 10,159 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:35:13.082762

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Customer Engagement&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Customer Dashboard ››Customer Dashboard Details Customer Dashboard Details Accessing Customer DashboardCustomer DetailsCustomer Metrics&nbsp;TransactionsInteractions&nbsp;Notifications Accessing Customer Dashboard To access the customer dashboard, perform the following steps: Navigate to the Customer Engagement Home page to display the CSR dashboard. In the left pane of the&nbsp;Home&nbsp;page, enter the customer name in the&nbsp;Customer Search&nbsp;field and click the&nbsp;&nbsp;icon to search for a customer. Click&nbsp;View More Search Options&nbsp;to enhance the search options. Enter the first name, last name, email address or phone number, and click&nbsp;Search&nbsp;to search for the customer. From the search result, select the required customer.&nbsp;The dashboard for the selected customer is displayed. Customer Details The Customer Dashboard enables you to view the customer details required for addressing the customer issues.&nbsp;It also enables you to view the customer profile and deactivate the customer.&nbsp;The customer name, weather, location and local time is displayed in the upper left corner of the page.&nbsp;You can view details of customer interactions across different channel, such as phone, email,&nbsp;Twitter to support customer engagement.&nbsp; Purchase/Exchange/Returns bar history: Displays the total number of purchases, exchanges, and returns made by the customer along with the corresponding amounts. Customer Management: Click the three blue dots next to the&nbsp;customer name to display the following options: View Profile - Click View Profile to display the Customer Profile page. This page&nbsp;helps you to manage customer profile. Deactivate Customer -&nbsp;Click Deactivate Customer to display the&nbsp;Deactivate Customer pop-up window.&nbsp;Select the reason for deactivating the customer and enter comments, if any. Customer Metrics&nbsp; The customer metrics computes and displays purchase, fulfillment and miscues details associated with the customer. Purchase :&nbsp;Displays the purchase details of the customer, such as life time value spent, appeasements, and the purchase history that gives you the percentage of full price paid by the customer.&nbsp; Fulfillment : Displays the fulfillment details such as the&nbsp;average number of days it took to ship an order from the time of order confirmation, and so on. Miscues:&nbsp;Displays indicators for the number of cancellations, damaged items, or mis-shipped orders that the customer has experienced in the last 6 months. Transactions The Transactions panel displays all the transactions associated with the customer.&nbsp; In the Transaction panel, you can sort the orders by selecting from the following options: All Orders Returns Exchanges Store Sale You can search for transactions by order number, item ID, or created date. Enter the required value in the search field and press Enter. Based on the search criteria, the transactions list is displayed. The transaction list displays the following details: Created: Date on which the order was created. Total: Total order amount, which is the sum of Order Subtotal, Total Charges, Total Taxes, Total Discounts. Organization:&nbsp;Indicates the organization associated with the order.&nbsp;This field will be displayed only if the cross organization order visibility feature is&nbsp;enabled in the Call Center Configuration UI.&nbsp;This feature helps the retailers view transactions across organization for a selected customer. To switch organization, select the organization from the drop-down next to the Customer Dashboard text in the top left corner of the page. Note: &bull; If you select the parent organization, you will be able to view all the transactions of the parent and child organization for the selected customer. &bull; If you select the child organization, you will be able to view only the transactions of the selected organization and not the parent organization. Status: Status of the order. Order #: Order number. Click the order number to display the order details on the Call Center page. ETA: Expected delivery time for the latest shipment. Note: When agents land on the customer dashboard, the transaction section will always display orders for the past 90 days. To look for orders beyond 90 days, agents can use the custom range filters on the transaction bar in the&nbsp;customer dashboard. Interactions&nbsp; The Interactions section enables you to view all the customer interactions. The Interaction list displays a record for each interaction even if there are multiple interactions on the same case. You can filter interactions by the following interaction type: Phone Email Chat Social Pickup&nbsp;in Store&nbsp; The Interaction section on the right panel of the Customer Dashboard displays all the customer interactions. Click each interaction type (phone, chat, email, social, and pickup in store) icon to view the corresponding interactions pertaining to the selected interaction type. Note: The number of interactions associated with each interaction type is displayed next to each icon.&nbsp;Manhattan Active&reg; Omni&nbsp;does not support viewing a consolidated list of interactions and cases&nbsp;across multiple countries and brands. From the interaction list, select an interaction to display the View Case page. Notifications The Notifications feature&nbsp;enables the CSRs to view the notifications (open cases) associated with the customers, so that the CSRs are&nbsp;aware of the ongoing issues. In the upper right&nbsp;corner of the page, click the Notifications drop-down arrow to&nbsp;view the notification panel. The notification panel displays the&nbsp;open cases for the selected customer. Click on each notification to view the case details.&nbsp; &nbsp; Refer to Customer Dashboard and Customer Metrics for more details.