# Customer Engagement Scorecard

**Permalink:** customer-engagement-scorecard
**Content Length:** 15,023 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:36:50.278348

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Supply Chain Intelligence&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Supply Chain Intelligence - Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Dashboards ››Customer Engagement Scorecard Customer Engagement Scorecard Filtering DataVisualizations The Customer Engagement Scorecard presents a variety of visualizations designed to assess essential performance metrics linked to customer cases. It enables you to evaluate customer interaction methods such as&nbsp;chat, Email,&nbsp;in-store, phone, social&nbsp;media, virtual assistant, and text messages. The main objective is to gauge the effectiveness of these interaction types in achieving successful case resolutions. You can use this dashboard to effortlessly spot issues within your customer engagement operations, identify and resolve gaps, gauge the efficacy of your contact center staff, and identify the specific training requirements for your customer team.&nbsp; &nbsp; You can access this dashboard&nbsp;in IBM Cognos by navigating to&nbsp;Team Content&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;SCI Packaged Content&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Packaged Dashboards&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;OMNI&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Customer Engagement Scorecard. &nbsp; Filtering Data This dashboard includes multiple filters which,&nbsp;when applied, modify the data into metrics and&nbsp;visualizations. The following&nbsp;table lists&nbsp;these filters: Filter Name Description Case Created Date You can select a date or date range to view the dashboard data accordingly. Case Resolved Date You can select a date or date range&nbsp;on which cases are resolved. Case Priority Name You can select the priority of the case, such as high, medium, and critical. Case Category Name Search and select case categories based on your requirement. Case Team You can multi-select teams from this filter for which you want to view the overall performance. Case Assignee First Name If you want to view the performance of an individual(s), search and select the first name(s) from the drop-down Case Assignee Last Name Using this filter, you can select the last name of the assignee. Interaction Type You can select one or multiple interaction types, such as Phone, Email, Chat, Social, Store Interactions, Virtual Assistant, and Text Message. &nbsp; Visualizations This section explains the visualizations available on this dashboard: Cases Resolved by Resolution Time This pie visualization provides the distribution of resolved cases based on different resolution time ranges. It provides a visual representation of promptness in case resolution. The time range includes cases resolved within 5 minutes, between 6 and 15 minutes, 16 to 30 minutes,&nbsp; 31 to 60 minutes, and greater than 60 minutes. This visualization enables you to identify and assess the resolution time for the highest volume of cases. If a significant number of case resolutions fall within an extended period, further considerations can help uncover the causes of delays, allowing you to implement corrective actions. Cases with Missed SLA by Interaction Type This pie chart provides information about unresolved cases beyond their due dates or service level agreements (SLA). The color distribution represent different interaction types, such as email, phone, social, and more.&nbsp;This visualization assists in pinpointing the less favored interaction method associated with a higher count of unresolved cases. Top 5 Categories&nbsp;of Resolved Cases by Interaction Type During a case creation, the contact center agent enters a case category name to feed additional details on the ticket. This stacked visualization on the dashboard provides information on the number of cases resolved using such categories per interaction type. The x-axis displays categories, such as store inquiry, damage/defective, returns, wishlist, and more. The y-axis depicts the number of cases. The stacked columns represent the number of resolved cases per interaction type for each category. Using this visualization, you can analyze the categories with the highest number of resolved cases and take measures to improve the success rate of those with fewer cases. Cases Resolved by Priority and Interaction Type The priority of cases determines the urgency and criticality of the case, and based on that, its resolution strategy is worked upon. This stacked column represents the resolved cases per priority and interaction type. The x-axis illustrates priorities, and the y-axis the number of cases. The stacked columns represent each interaction type and its respective count of resolved cases. If the number of resolved cases is less under the critical category, you can undertake additional analysis and remedial actions for their prompt resolution. % of Customers with Cases Resolved within 5 mins by Interaction Type This visualization displays the data on the percentage of customer IDs, for which the resolved cases are within five minutes of their creation. The x-axis displays the date, and the y-axis the percentage of customers. This insight is useful to gauge the effectiveness of the contact center agents in providing swift resolution to cases.&nbsp; % of Cases Resolved within 5 mins by Interaction Type This stacked representation offers insights into the percentage of cases resolved within 5 minutes across various interaction types. By utilizing this visual aid, you can assess and compare the success rates of different interaction types and derive valuable insights to adopt the most effective approach to resolving cases. Additionally, it facilitates strategies to enhance the efficiency of less successful interaction methods. The x-axis of the visualization depicts the date, while the y-axis represents the percentage of resolved cases. The color combinations within the stacked columns signify the diverse interaction types. Case Resolution Metrics by Interaction Type & Team This section&nbsp;provides a detailed breakdown of case resolution metrics, including average resolution time, number of resolved cases, and other relevant metrics, organized by different interaction types.&nbsp;It offers an extensive view of team-wise performance across various communication channels.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;