# UI Resources - Customer Engagement

**Permalink:** customer-engagement-ui-resources
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Customer Engagement/Process & Configuration Guides/UI Resources
**Content Length:** 31,382 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:01:00.750333

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Customer Engagement››Process & Configuration Guides ››UI Resources - Customer Engagement UI Resources - Customer Engagement This page lists the grants details for each of the screens and resources. Customer ProfileAgent Availability ChannelsCSR Dashboard Customer Service Agent InboxCustomer DashboardContact Center Manager DashboardBanned Customer DashboardCase List FilterCasesCase NoteCustomer NotesInteractionInteraction Wrap upMessagesArchive and PurgeGet Grants for users and rolesExclusion Grant: Exclusion of specific resources within the grant’s domain If a user is given wildcard grants, they may automatically get access to new features which are protected by new grants that fall within the wildcard criteria. For example, users with "customerengagementfacade::*" will get access to all the resources that starts with "customerenganementfacade".  It is recommended to add individual grants to a role instead of wildcard grants. Resource(s) Comments customerengagementfacade::* This resource allows users to access all the customer engagement screens. customerservice::* This resource allows users to access all the customer service screens. customerengagementfacade::view This resource allows users to only view the customer engagement screens. customerengagementfacade::customerengagementservices This resource allows the user to see the customer service in the menu entry and on the home page. customerengagementfacade::transaction::read This resource provides access to all the customer engagement "Read Only" API's Customer Profile Grants Details customerengagementfacade::customer::customer-profile::edit-customer-profile This resource gives access to the user to edit the customer data on the customer profile page. customerengagementfacade::customer::customer-profile::view-customer-profile This resource enables the user to access the customer profile through the three blue dots. Agent Availability Channels Grants Details customerengagementfacade::interactionavailability:edit This resource allows agents to choose their interaction channels on the Availability popup. CSR Dashboard Grants Details customerengagementfacade::customerengagementservices To view CSR Dashboard customerengagementfacade::customerengagementservices and customerengagementfacade::casesandinteractions::admin To view cases and interaction option in the navigation bar customerengagementfacade::customerengagementservices and  customerengagementfacade::social::admin To view social option in the navigation bar omnifacade::order::order::read To view order option in the navigation bar customerengagementfacade::agentavailabilitystatus::admin To view agent availability status Customer Service Agent Inbox Grants Details customerengagementfacade::agentinbox::admin This grant allows you access to the Customer Service Agent Inbox, and the ability to perform any function not controlled by another grant or configuration. customerengagementfacade::agentinbox::transfer This grant allows agents to transfer the interaction and related case from the contact center agent inbox to an agent of another team. customerinteraction::bancustomer This grant allows agents to ban a customer from utilizing the Agent Inbox customerengagementfacade::agent-responses::edit This grant allows agents to access the Response template to create their own custom responses. Customer Dashboard Grants Details customerengagementfacade::customerengagementservices and customerengagementfacade::customer-dashboard::admin To view Customer dashboard customerinteraction::removecustomerban This grant allows managers to remove the ban from a customer. The following grants are required to view each of the following options in the interactions panel navigation bar. customerengagementfacade::customer-dashboard::interactions::view-interactions-phone Phone customerengagementfacade::customer-dashboard::interactions::view-interactions-email Email customerengagementfacade::customer-dashboard::interactions::view-interactions-social Social customerengagementfacade::customer-dashboard::interactions::view-interactions-notes Notes customerengagementfacade::customer-dashboard::interactions::view-interactions-chat Chat customerengagementfacade::customer-dashboard::interactions::view-interactions-store Store customerengagementfacade::conversations::admin To view the text icon in the interactions list section customerengagementfacade::customer-dashboard::interactions::view-interactions-list To view the interactions list in the interactions section customerengagementfacade::customer-dashboard::transactions::view-transaction-list To view the transactions list in the transaction section customerengagementfacade::customer-dashboard::profile::view-net-purchase-history To view the purchase bar customerengagementfacade::customer-dashboard::profile::view-customer-status To view the customer status The following grants are required to view the customer contact details in the header customerengagementfacade::customer-dashboard:profile::view-phone To view the phone number of the customer customerengagementfacade::customer-dashboard::profile::view-email To view the email id of the customer customerengagementfacade::customer-dashboard::profile::view-facebook (Facebook integration not supported currently) To view the Facebook details of the customer (Facebook integration not supported currently) customerengagementfacade::customer-dashboard::profile::view-twitter To view the Twitter details of the customer The following grants are required to view the following details in the purchase section customerengagementfacade::customer-dashboard::metrics::view-lifetime-value To view the lifetime value customerengagementfacade::customer-dashboard::metrics::view-appeasements To view the appeasements customerengagementfacade::customer-dashboard::metrics::view-price-sensitivity To view the Pays full price details customerengagementfacade::customer-dashboard::metrics::view-click-to-ship-average To view the click to ship average in the fulfillment section customerengagementfacade::customer-dashboard::metrics::view-fulfillment-exceptions To view the miscues section Contact Center Manager Dashboard Grants Details customerengagementfacade::manager-dashboard::admin This resource gives access to the user to view the CSR manager dashboard. Banned Customer Dashboard Grants Details customerinteraction::bannedcustomerdashboard::edit This grant allows a manager to access the Banned Customer Dashboard and perform both Unban & Unban actions. Case List Filter Grants Details customerengagementfacade::cases::publicfilter::delete This grant allows a manager to delete public filters. customerengagementfacade::cases::publicfilter::edit This grant allows a manger to edit public filters. Cases Function Resource ID Description MenuResourceId masterdatafacade::cases::caseTemplate::read This is a Resource Id to allow the user to access and view the case template menu entry. Create Template masterdatafacade::cases::caseTemplate::admin This is a Resource Id for the contact center agent to create a new template. Delete Template masterdatafacade::cases::caseTemplate::admin This is a Resource Id for the contact center agent  to delete a new template. Send Email customerengagementfacade::casesandinteractions::email::send This is a Resource Id to allow the user to see the Send Email button on the case timeline. Reply Email customerengagementfacade::casesandinteractions::email::reply This is a Resource Id to allow the user to see the REPLY button on the case timeline. Attach button customerengagementfacade::casesandinteractions::email::Attachments This is a Resource Id to allow the user to use the attach button on the compose email pop-up Get case configuration api::cases::config::read This is a Resource ID to allow the user to get the case configurations through API. Post case configuration api::cases::config::write This is a Resource ID to allow the user to post the case configurations through API. View case configuration masterdatafacade::cases::caseconfig::read This is a Resource ID, which is a facade service to view case configurations. Create case configuration masterdatafacade::cases::caseconfig::admin This is a Resource ID that is a facade service for admin grants of case configurations. Case Template Constant Configuration Team and Due Date Assignment strategy configuration omui-facade::transaction::admin This is a Resource Id for the contact center agent to view the respective function configuration in the menu entry. Case Template Constant Configuration Team and Due Date Assignment strategy configuration omui-facade::transaction::read This is a Resource Id to allow the user to access and view the respective function configuration in the menu entry. Team-Based Cases omui::organization::menu::team This is a Resource Id to allow the user to access Teams in the menu entry. Related Cases customerengagementfacade::cases::relatedCases This is a Resource Id to allow the user to access related cases on an order. Change the status of a closed case customerengagementfacade::cases::changestatus::closed-case This is a Resource Id to allow the user to change the status of a closed case. Proceed anyway button for parallel edits on a case customerengagementfacade::cases::continueEdit This is a Resource Id to allow the user to proceed anyway and edit a case even though another user is editing the same case. Case UI Display Config omui::cases::menu::CaseUIDisplayConfig This is a Resource Id to allow the user to access Case UI Display Config in the menu entry. Bulk Case Assignment customerengagementfacase::cases::bulkassign This Resource Id allows the user to assign multiple cases at once, as a bulk activity, from the Case List UI. Bulk Case Close customerengagementfacase::cases::bulkclose This Resource Id allows the user to close multiple cases at once, as a bulk activity, from the Case List UI. Case Note Function Resource ID Description Case Note customerengagementfacade::casesandinteractions::casenote::add This is the Resource Id to allow the user to add new notes to a case. Case Note customerengagementfacade::casesandinteractions::casenote::edit This is the Resource Id to allow the user to edit existing notes on a case Case Note customerengagementfacade::casesandinteractions::casenote::* This is the Resource Id to allow the user to view/add/edit new notes to a case Customer Notes Grants Details customerengagementfacade::customer::note::view This grant allows the user to view the customer notes icon as well as actual customer notes. customerengagementfacade::customer::note::admin This is a universal grant that allows the user to add/ edit/ delete customer notes. customerengagementfacade::customer::note::edit This grant allows the user to edit customer notes. They must still have the 'view' grant to access the records. customerengagementfacade::customer::note::add This grant allows the user to add customer notes. They must still have the 'view' grant to access the records. customerengagementfacade::customer::note::delete This grant allows the user to delete customer notes. They must still have the 'view' grant to access the records. omui-facade::transaction::read This is a Resource Id to access and view the case template constant. omui-facade::transaction::admin This is a Resource Id for the contact center agent to be able to create a new case template constant. Interaction Grants Details customerengagementfacade::casesandinteractions::email:send To send email on the case detail screen customerengagementfacade::casesandinteractions::email:reply To reply to an email on the case detail screen Interaction Wrap up Grants Details customerengagementfacade::interactionwrap::admin To view interaction wrap up customerengagementfacade::conversations::admin To view interaction count badge Messages Function Resource ID Description Messages customerengagementfacade::conversations::admin customerengagementfacade::customerengagementservices To access the Conversation screen by clicking the Messages icon on the CSR Home screen. Archive and Purge Function Resource ID Description MenuResourceId omui::customerengagement::menu::CaseArchiveConfig This is the Resource Id to access and view the menu entry for the case archive config. MenuResourceId omui::customerengagement::menu::EmailLogRetentionConfig This is the Resource Id to access and view the menu entry for the email log retention config. MenuResourceId omui::customerengagement::menu::InteractionRetentionConfig This is the Resource Id to access and view the menu entry for the independent Interactions retention config. MenuResourceId omui::customerengagement::menu::SocialRetentionConfig This is the Resource Id to access and view the menu entry for the social retention config. Get Grants for users and roles Resource(s) Comments organization::grant::read API: /organization/api/organization/grant This resource is a core service, which includes the ability to get a grant by Role Id & Resource Id, the ability to get a grant by Primary Key, and the ability to export the grant. organization::grant::read-getlistforuser API : /organization/api/organization/grant/list/grantsForUser/{userId} This resource is a core service used to get a list of grants for a given user. organization::grant::read-getusergrantforresourceandorg API : /organization/api/organization/grant/organizationId/{organizationId}/resourceId/{resourceId} This resource is a core service used to get grants for a user based on Role Id & Resource Id. Exclusion Grant: Exclusion of specific resources within the grant’s domain If only a certain specific grant needs to be excluded for a user/role while providing an overarching grant, the specific grant that needs to be excluded can be configured in exclusion grants after providing the overarching (parent) grant for the role. For example, consider assigning the grant ResourceId=“customerengagementfacade::*“ to a user, but if we want to restrict the user's from sending an email controlled by the grant (customerengagementfacade::casesandinteractions::email:send”), retailers can configure exclusion grant record with: ExcludedResourceId=”customerengagementfacade::casesandinteractions::email:send” entry for the parent grant : ResourceId=”customerengagementfacade::*“”. API: POST {{URL}}/organization/api/organization/grant/save { "RoleId": "Tier2CSR", "OrganizationId": "globalorg-us", "ResourceId": "api::customerengagementfacade::*", "ExclusionGrant": [ { ExcludedResourceId: "customerengagementfacade::casesandinteractions::email:send" } ] } The exclusion grant can be configured from MUP UI: Organizations > Organization > Role > Grant > Exclusion Grants and click on Add button When the system's grant's domain validates whether the user can access a resource or not, the system also checks if any exclusion grants have been configured. If any exclusion grants are configured, the system will restrict access to the resources controlled by the excluded grant, but will allow access to other resources controlled by the parent grant. Note: Exclusion Grants are valid only for its parent grant, not for the other grants that a user may have.