# Customer-Initiated Ship It Instead due to No-Show  

**Permalink:** customer-initiated-ship-it-instead-due-to-no-show
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Order Management/Process & Configuration Guides/Digital Self-Service/Ship it Instead/Customer-Initiated Ship It Instead due to No-Show  
**Content Length:** 82,053 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:55:26.045592

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Order Management››Process & Configuration Guides››Digital Self-Service››Ship it Instead ››Customer-Initiated Ship It Instead due to No-Show Customer-Initiated Ship It Instead due to No-Show Last updated: 06/25/2025 Customer-Initiated Ship It Instead due to No-Show OverviewProcessEligibility for ConversionNotifying Customers of the Ship It Instead OptionAddress Entry & ValidationFraud Verification for Address ChangeOrder Updates & ProcessingRelease UpdatesS&H Charge CalculationAutomatic Tax Write OffShipping RestrictionConversion Confirmation Email & TextStore FulfillmentPacking and ShippingExceptionsIntegration with External Store Fulfillment ApplicationsConfigurationShip It Instead S&H CalculationOptional Digital Self Service ConfigurationOrder ConfigurationStore Fulfillment ConfigurationFeature ScopeImplementation FlavorsShip It Instead via Native App or E-CommerceExclude ShipItInstead link from Pickup Reminders for Hazmat ItemsWhy does Digital Self-service page display the same message for both customer initiated and store short ship it instead flowsUIs and EntitiesServicesTroubleshootingThe order is successfully converted from "Pickup at Store" to "Ship to Address" delivery method, but the corresponding fulfillment is not convertedWhen calling the conversion API, receiving the exception "Store <locationId> does not support delivery method conversion".Shipping and handling charges are not being calculatedOrders not moving the fulfillment from the Pickup to the Pack screenDigital Self-Service UI not loading due to Cart Initialization ErrorRelated Articles Overview If a customer is unable to pick up a BOPIS (buy online pick-up at a store) order, the customer can initiate a conversion to ship it to the specified address instead. Using Digital Self-Service, customers can convert pick-up at store and ship to store orders to ship to address, reducing cancelations due to customer no-shows. Here’s how the conversion works: A customer places an order for store pickup. The store prepares the order and the customer receives an email that the order is ready for pickup. The customer receives a pickup reminder email with a link to “Ship it Instead”. The customer clicks the link and enters their shipping address. Registered customers can select their saved address. If the system is optionally configured for calculating and collecting additional shipping and handling charges and tax on shipping and handling charges - applicable for the conversion, the system will calculate the balance due payable for the conversion and the customer is required to enter payment details. On successful payment processing - and confirmation from the customer, the order is converted to a ship to address order The customer receives an email/text confirming their conversion to shipment is complete. Store associates are notified that a pickup fulfillment needs to be shipped. An associate retrieves the items from the pickup staging location, which can be viewed from the notification. A store associate packs and ships the items. A shipment confirmation email is sent to the customer. Note: Steps 5 and 6 are optional and requires the retailer to configure the system to enable calculating shipping and handling charges and tax on shipping and handling charges and to capture the payment from DSS. By default, this configuration is turned off. Digital Self-Service requests conversion via Order Management, which in turn sends the request to Store Inventory & Fulfillment. Out of the box, Manhattan Order Management integrates with Manhattan Store Fulfillment, but extension points can be used for third party store or warehouse applications. Manhattan Digital Self-Service currently supports integration with the Manhattan Order Management solution. Process The diagram below illustrates how Ship It Instead works. Process Flow - Ship it instead for no show Eligibility for Conversion Please refer to the below section for details on the criteria that should be met for converting the PickupAtStore or ShipToStore order to Ship To Address. Eligibility for ConversionThis section describes the criteria that items must meet to be eligible for BOPIS to shipment conversion. All the order lines in a particular release must meet all the criteria. If even one criterion is not met by any order lines in the release, none of the items in the release can be converted. All the order lines of a given release should be part of the conversion request; converting only some order lines in the release or partial quantities of a line is not permitted. Validation Configuration Comments The store should support conversion of the delivery method from PickupAtStore and ShipToStore to ShipToAddress Location >> Location Fulfillment Attribute >> Ship It Instead This configuration has to be explicitly set up for the store to allow the conversion. All the order lines included in a given release (corresponding to the store fulfillment) must be part of the conversion request Including order lines belonging to a single release at a time is recommended. This is not mandatory but will help with troubleshooting. All the items in the release (conversion request) should support the ShipToAddress delivery method. Order Line >> Can Ship To Address This configuration corresponds to item.fulfillmentAttribute.ShipToAddress in the Item component. The value of this attribute on the order line superceeds the configuration in item master.  By default, all the order lines (item) created will have this attribute set to true and, in case an item is not supported, for BOPIS to Ship To Home conversion this attribute has to be set to false explicitly. If this is null, the system will populate it automatically from Item master. The current delivery method of all the order lines in the release (conversion request) should be PickupAtStore or ShipToStore. Order Line >> Delivery Method The updated delivery method of all the order lines in the release (conversion request) should be ShipToAddress. MaxFulfillmentStatusId of all the order lines in the release (conversion request) should be Picked (3600) Order Line >> Max Fulfillment Status Id Extended statuses are supported, only if its MinFulfillmentStatus >= 3600 and MaxFulfillmentSetatus < 3700 MinFulfillmentStatusId of all the order lines in the release (conversion request) should be Picked (3600) Order Line >> Min Fulfillment Status Id Extended statuses are supported, only if its MinFulfillmentStatus >= 3600 and MaxFulfillmentSetatus < 3700 None of the order lines in the release (conversion request) should have an alternate pickup person. Order Line >> Order Line Pickup Detail >> Is Primary This validation is associated with orderLinePickupDetails.isPrimary. The validation fails if this attribute is set to 'false'. Valid ShippingMethodId should be populated on all the order lines of the release (conversion request) Order Line >> Shipping Method Id The Shipping Method Id should exist in the system Current date/time is less than PickupExpiryDate/Time populated on all the order lines in the release (conversion request) by 'X' hours Order Line >> Order Line Additional >> Pickup Expiry Date The 'X' duration can be configured in the KV store. Default is 4 hours (path: kv/config/com-manh-cp-order/order.bopisToSta.hoursBeforePickupExpiry/edit) This criterion is not applicable for Store-Initiated Ship It Instead due to No-Show The following attributes for ShipToAddress must be populated on all the order lines of the release (conversion request) and cannot be null address.Email address.Address1 address.Country address.State address.City address.PostalCode address.Phone Order Line >> Ship To Address If multiple order lines are included in the conversion request, since they are part of the same Release, the ship to address on all the order lines must be the same. In the case of an order placed by an anonymous customer, if the order does not have a customer email address and customer phone number, the pickup conversion will fail since it is mandatory information for MA Active Fulfillment system (SIF) Notifying Customers of the Ship It Instead Option Customers can access the Ship it Instead Digital Self-Service page via a link from an email, text, or via e-commerce order history/order details. The pickup reminder and final pickup reminder emails include a link to "Ship It Instead" if all validations (like item and store fulfillment eligibility) are met. See here for information on the ship it instead link. Address Entry & Validation If a customer record exists for the customer associated with the order, and a saved shipping address exists for the customer, the user is prompted to use that shipping address. If there is a preferred shipping address saved, the preferred address is chosen by default. If there is no preferred shipping address saved, one of the saved shipping addresses is chosen. In either scenario, the customer has the option to enter a new address instead. If the customer does not have a customer record in Active Omni, or if a registered customer chooses to edit the address, the user is navigated to the edit delivery address UI. The countries listed on the edit delivery UI page can be limited to specific countries using a configuration at organizational level. This will allow retailers to restrict customers from shipping orders to those destinations; more information about this can be found here. Address validation can be done in two ways: using Google Autocomplete, which completes the user's address as they type, or via integration with a third-party address validation service (AVS). Google Autocomplete can optionally be enabled if a Google account is registered for this service. The autocomplete functionality searches based on inputs in the Address Line 1 field. Other fields do not trigger the autocomplete search capabilities. Once an address is automatically populated via autocomplete, the user can still manually update address fields if required. Address validation (through AVS) is performed when the user clicks "Continue." If the AVS service is unavailable, the user can proceed. DSS uses the third party AVS configured for the contact center. If a Call Center AVS is not configured, DSS notifies the customer that the address was not verified and gives the customer the choice to proceed with the entered address. Fraud Verification for Address Change To perform fraud verification for address change in case of ship it instead, implement the user exit - Order:Order:UserExit:EvaluatePostReleaseAddressUpdate. Click here for more details. For further details about the user exit, refer to documentation in ProActive. Order Updates & Processing If the conversion request meets all eligibility criteria, order lines are updated as follows: Delivery method is "ShipToAddress" (orderLine.DeliveryMethodId = ShipToAddress) The prior delivery method is set to "PickupAtStore" for pickup at store orders and "ShipToStore" for ship to store orders (orderLine.orderLineAdditional.priorDeliveryMethodId) Shipping address is populated (orderLine.addressId) The pipeline selected for the "ShipToAddress" delivery method is stamped as the orderLine.pipeLineId. The quantity is not resubmitted through the pipeline, and the status is not updated. This pipeline is used for future status updates. If the pipeline for ship to address and BOPIS items differ, the ship to address pipeline should include picked status (3600), else the conversion will fail. The MinFulfillmentStatus and MaxFulfillmentStatus of the updated lines is Picked (3600) Shipping Method Id is populated If the system is optionally configured for calculating and collecting additional shipping and handling charges and tax on shipping and handling charges - applicable for the conversion, the system will calculate the shipping and handling charges and tax on shipping and handling charges applicable for the shipping method in the system and calculate the balance due payable for the conversion. Pickup expiry date is set to null (orderLine.orderLineAdditional.pickupExpiryDate = null) The release is updated to reflect the new delivery method (ShipToAddress) and destination action (Delivery). If any other attribute of the order or line is updated in the request, the updates are validated against the mod type configurations for the respective attributes. Order line milestones are revaluated. Any order line milestones for the delivery method "PickupAtStore" and "ShipToStore" are removed, and any milestones for the delivery method "ShipToAddress" and "ShippingMethodId" are evaluated and generated, if applicable. With this update, pickup reminders are not generated for the order lines. The modification type OrderLine::UpdateBOPISToShipToAddress is triggered when this update occurs based on the change event type "Event::OrderLine:UpdateBOPISToShipToAddress."' The below modification types and corresponding services are suppressed: OrderLine::DeliveryMethod OrderLine::FulfillmentGroupId OrderLine::AddressId OrderLine::ShippingInfo The following is not updated when the conversion occurs: Quantity details (all the quantities remain in Picked status - 3600) Priority/effective rank Order tags Existing allocations and reservations Existing invoices. For example, BOPIS items invoiced on Picked status which are later converted to a shipment are not invoiced again upon fulfillment. Once the conversion is successful, the order lines cannot be converted back to the "Pick up At Store"/"Ship To Store" delivery method. Release Updates Once the order lines are successfully updated to ship to address, REST API is called synchronously to communicate the release update to the store. The release update message is similar to the original release outbound message sent to the store, but will reflect the new values for the below attributes and any other updated attributes. Release Header: DeliveryMethodId = "ShipToAddress" DestinationAction = Delivery NoOfDeliveryLines Address AddressId Release Line: DeliveryMethodId = "ShipToAddress" Once the updated release is processed, the fulfillment is converted from a pickup to a ship to address and the conversion request is sent to the store configured as "Manhattan Active® Location" in the location. Refer here for location configuration details. S&H Charge Calculation Retailers can enable shipping charge calculation and charge the end customers for customer initiated ship it instead conversions if "Calculate shipping charges when: Customer initiates for a no-show" is enabled on the Order Configuration UI. Once the customer selects the item and the address that is already saved in the system or chooses to enter a new address, the end customer will be redirected to the order summary page where he can review the additional charges he should pay for the conversion. If the customer agrees to pay the additional charges for shipping and adds a payment, and then confirms the conversion, the order will be converted to ship to address, and the conversion request is sent to the store configured as "Manhattan Active® Location" in the location. If the customer does not agree with paying the shipping charges and exits the self-service window, the order will not be converted and continues to be a BOPIS order. If a customer closes the self-service window after adding payment and without confirming the conversion or if the fraud check is enabled and the retailer chooses not to continue with conversion due to fraud validation results in failure or in-review, the order will not be converted and payment will be reverted to the customer after the 'X' amount of time (by default payment will be reverted after an hour). For example, if a customer adds a payment through the DSS UI but closes the window without confirming the conversion, the order is not converted to the ship to address, but the payment for shipping charges has already been collected. In this scenario, after a designated amount of time, payment will be automatically reverted to the customer. Additionally, if a retailer wishes to revert the payment before the designated time, a manual payment request can be made with the below payload. API: /payment/api/payment/paymentRequest/save { "PaymentRequestId": "CC100001", "OrderId": "CC10000", "ExecutionMode": "CalculateAndExecute", "CartOrder": { "CartOrderTotal": 0 } } Note: The 'X' duration for payment reversion can be configured in the KV store. Default is 1 hour (path: kv/config/com-manh-cp-payment/payment.postPaymentRequestDelayedMessageSeconds/edit) In the event that a customer initially used a non-prepaid card (Payment Method 1) to pay for a BOPIS order and later utilized a different non-prepaid card (Payment Method 2) to pay additional shipping charges, a payment reversal can be processed against either Payment Method 1 or Payment Method 2 in the scenario of a payment reversion. Info: The user exit Order:Order:UserExit:GetPermittedModTypes can be implemented to limit BOPIS to shipment conversions based on dollar amount (for example, order lines worth > $5 can be shipped) or based on any other custom criteria. With the user exit, the ship it instead modtype ("OrderLine::UpdateBOPISToShipToAddress") can be removed from the permitted modtype list to prevent end customers from receiving the ship it instead self-service link during the final pickup reminder. For further details about the user exit, refer to documentation in ProActive. Automatic Tax Write Off When Shipping & Handling Charge Calculation is Disabled: When the shipping address is updated, taxes are recalculated and included in the order total. As a result, the payment status changes to "Awaiting Payment Info" (1000) due to the increased order total. If a retailer chooses to write off the additional taxes instead of reaching out to the customer to collect a payment, automatic tax write-off can be enabled. This allows the additional taxes to be written off, enabling the customer to complete the order without making an additional payment. Click here to enable automatic tax write-off. Write off API details Mode Preview = true Preview = false Manual Run the Write Off API in preview mode. This does not perform any updates to the order, but gives a preview of what adjustments will be made on the order when the API is run The manual mode will require a body in the PUT API for the user to specify how much to write off and the order actions PUT:- /api/order/internal/order/orderId/{orderId}/writeOff?mode=manual PUT:- /api/order/internal/order/orderId/{orderId}/writeOff?mode=manual&preview=true Persist the changes in the order Adds the specified write off charge with the specified reason Perform the specified order actions and all the updates that comes with adding a charge in an order PUT:- /api/order/internal/order/orderId/{orderId}/writeOff?mode=manual&preview=false Automatic Run the Write Off API in preview mode. This does not perform any updates to the order, but gives a preview of what adjustments will be made when the API is run PUT:- /api/order/internal/order/orderId/{orderId}/writeOff PUT:- /api/order/internal/order/orderId/{orderId}/writeOff?preview=true PUT:- /api/order/internal/order/orderId/{orderId}/writeOff?mode=automatic PUT:- /api/order/internal/order/orderId/{orderId}/writeOff?mode=automatic&preview=true After verifying that the adjustments work, run the Write Off API to add the charge of type "WriteOff" to the order so that order and payment are in sync Persist the changes in the order Adds the appropriate write off charge the order component will then do all the updates that comes with adding a charge in an order PUT:- /api/order/internal/order/orderId/{orderId}/writeOff?preview=false PUT:- /api/order/internal/order/orderId/{orderId}/writeOff?mode=automatic&preview=false When Shipping & Handling Charge Calculation is Enabled: If shipping charge calculation is enabled for the Customer-Initiated Ship It Instead due to no-Show flow, recalculated taxes (including taxes on item price and SnH) will be included in the order total. In this case, the additional payment will be collected from the customer. The automatic tax write-off configuration will not apply when shipping & handling charge calculation is enabled. Shipping Restriction Shipping restriction validation can be enabled for customer initiated ship it instead conversions by enabling 'Evaluate Shipping Restriction' service for ship it instead mod type. Click here for more info on shipping restrictions. Enable Shipping Restriction Validations configuration in Self Service Configuration This configuration will be applicable to both change shipping address and ship it instead features. Note: If a shipping restriction exists for the shipping address provided, the customer will not be able to proceed further with the transaction to convert the order. Conversion Confirmation Email & Text When a BOPIS/ShipToStore order is converted to a shipment, the customer can be notified via email and text that the order will be 'Ship instead". See Transactional Emails and Transactional Texts for more details. Store Fulfillment When a Customer-initiated Ship It Instead request is successful, the following fields are updated in the fulfillment: Fulfillment Address is persisted in the fulfillment with "Is Shipping Address" as true If there is any other Fulfillment Address with "Is Shipping Address" as true, its value is updated to false. Delivery Method Id is updated to Ship to Address Is Pickup Convert to Shipment flag is updated to true Customer First Name, Customer Last Name, Customer Email, and Customer Phone are updated Ship Via Id is updated based on the following logic: If Ship Via of the BOPIS fulfillment (before the conversion) was already sent during the release, that value is retained. If the Ship Via of the BOPIS fulfillment (before the conversion) was not sent, the default Ship Via Id configured in Store Fulfillment Parameters is used. If the Ship Via of the BOPIS fulfillment (before the conversion) was not sent and the default value is not configured, it remains null, and the store associate must enter a carrier and service level during packing. Irrespective of whether the Ship Via Id is already present in the BOPIS fulfillment or not, the Shipping Method Id sent in the release is ignored. Note: Store Fulfillment supports cross-org Customer-Initiated Ship It Instead requests (for example, if the order's organization is A and the fulfillment's organization is B, refer to the details here: Cross-Organization Fulfillment Guide). Packing and Shipping A "New pickup order to ship" push notification is displayed in the store to notify store associates. The Packing UI, which can be directly accessed from the notification, indicates which orders are for conversion. The staging location is displayed on the UI to assist with retrieval of the items. Once the order arrives in the packing area, it is packed using the Packing UI and shipped using the normal shipment order flow. Note: In addition to the required configuration, the following criteria must be met for Customer-Initiated Ship it Instead to succeed in Store Fulfillment: The fulfillment must be in "Picked" or "Sorted" status Mandatory Fulfillment Address fields must be provided in the request Exceptions If the conversion request fails in the store (i.e., due to missing configurations), an exception is returned, but the order updates are retained. The conversion request is not retried, and the order will not have any indication of the failure. In case any such failures are noticed, reach out to services or the RnD team for further analysis and troubleshooting. Integration with External Store Fulfillment Applications If the location is a third party Store Fulfillment application and is not configured as a "Manhattan Active® Location" for location type Store, the conversion request is sent to the store via the user exit Order:Release:User Exit:ProcessExternalReleaseUpdate. Refer to ProActive to configure extension points. Sample Release Update Request Sample Location Request for UE Implementation Configuration The following configurations are required to implement the Customer-Initiated Ship It Instead functionality: Product Configuration Link Digital Self-Service Configure the default shipping method in the Digital Self Service Configuration UI Google Autocomplete account details (optional) Digital Self Service Enable AVS (optional) Optional Digital Self Service configurations are Available here Order Enable Ship it instead in Order Configuration Enable publish email/text in modification rules Enable location to allow conversion of BOPIS orders Enable CanShipToAddress for item/order line Sync order configuration for UpdateBOPISToShipToAddress modType Optionally initialize the cart so that shipping and handling charges and associated taxes can be calculated Order configurations are available here Store Inventory & Fulfillment Configure the "New pickup order to ship" Push Notification Template Optionally configure the default Ship It Instead Ship Via Id in the Store Fulfillment Parameters Available here Note: To enable ship it instead conversion for both pick-up at store and ship to store orders, select the 'Enable Ship it instead' configuration in the Order Configuration UI. If customers have already enabled this configuration for only pick-up at store conversion, then the 'Enable Ship it instead' configuration should be disabled and re-enabled to activate for ship to store conversions as well. This will enable Mod Type override configurations for the "ShipToStore" and "PickupAtStore" delivery methods. Note: A default ship via must also be configured in Store Fulfillment Parameters as well. Validations are not performed to ensure that the Shipping Method configured in DSS corresponds to a Ship Via configured in Store Fulfillment. It is the client's responsibility to ensure these values are associated correctly. The Store Fulfillment Ship Via value is the value that is ultimately used during shipment. Ship It Instead S&H Calculation The following configurations are required to calculate shipping and handling charges and tax on shipping and handling changes and capture the payment for the balance due applicable for conversion: Product Configuration Link Digital Self-Service Enable Pay by Link for Self Service Features Configure self service payment gateway id Enable - Permit SelfService Sales - for the Payment Type in Payment Capture Config Available here Order Enable "Calculate shipping charges when:: Customer initiates for a no-show" in the Order Configuration UI. Available here The DSS configurations mentioned above are not restricted only to ship it instead flow and will impact all other DSS features. Optional Digital Self Service Configuration Google Autocomplete Configuration Name: selfservice.mapsKey Note: Value is the Google account used to subscribe to multiple services. If a value is not configured, Google Autocomplete is not enabled. Digital Self Service Enable AVS Enables address verification service for the address entered by the customer. Refer here for more information. Order Configuration Below is a list of configuration and interface mapping changes required to enable this feature. *Indicates that help is required by Manhattan services to complete this configuration. Otherwise, configuration can be done within the application or on external, customer-owned systems. Order/OrderConfiguration Select "Enable Ship It Instead" in the Order Configuration UI. Refer to Order Orchestration for more details. Enable "Calculate Shipping Charges when initiated by: Customer" in the Order Configuration UI. Refer to Order Orchestration for more details. Enable Auto Write-Off Additional Taxes in the Order Configuration UI. Refer to Order Orchestration for more details Sync order configuration for UpdateBOPISToShipToAddress modType using /order/api/order/orderConfig/sync Organization/Location Set the isManhattanActiveLocation flag to true on the store location Enable ShipItInstead in Org Location > Fulfillment Attributes OrderLine CanShipToAddress=true is the default value during order creation. This behaviour overrides the shipToAddress configuration for Item - Selling Attributes. If Item - Selling Attributes has to be honoured, then explicitly set CanShipToAddress=null. Email Message Enable "Ship It Instead Confirmation" email if required by referring to the Transactional Emails guide. Configure the email message for the "Ship BOPIS Instead" mod type in the Order Config UI. Sync the UpdateBOPISToShipToAddress mod type, if required. Text Message Enable "Ship It Instead Confirmation" text if required by referring to the Transactional Texts guide. Configure the text message for the "Ship BOPIS Instead" mod type in the Order Config UI. Sync the UpdateBOPISToShipToAddress mod type, if required. Configure the 'Ship It Instead' attribute/checkbox in the Order Configuration UI to enable conversion of 'PickupAtStore" and "ShipToStore" orders to "ShipToAddress" order after the order is released to the store. See the section below to enable this using APIs. Mod Type Override Configuration For the conversion to be successful, the below-mentioned Mod Types have to be suppressed during conversion for which mod type overrides have to be configured for all the four below-mentioned mod types.  Mod type config overrides are supported only for the below-mentioned mod types for delivery method "PickUpAtStore" and "ShipToStore" and restrict from status Packed (3700). OrderLine::DeliveryMethod OrderLine::FulfillmentGroupId OrderLine::AddressId OrderLine::ShippingInfo Refer to the sample request below to save mod type config overrides via API: /order/api/order/orderConfig/save { "OrderConfigId": "DefaultConfig", "ModTypeConfig": { "ModTypeConfigOverrides": [ { "DeliveryMethod": { "DeliveryMethodId": "PickUpAtStore" }, "RestrictFromStatus": "3700" } ], "ModType": { "ModTypeId": "OrderLine::AddressId" } } } Even though the valid RestrictFromStatus for all the four mod types overrides mentioned above is 3700 (Packed), these mod types will not be overridden for any status other than 3600 (Picked). Validations are in place if any other mod type is provided or any other delivery method or restrict from status for the above-mentioned mod type overrides are provided. Repeat the above mod type override for all the other remaining mod types as well. For the conversion to be successful, all the four mod types mentioned above should have the orderrides defined for the order configuration. Otherwise, the conversion will fail. The above-mentioned mod type config overrides can be disabled, if required, using API /order/api/order/orderConfig/save. Refer to the sample request mentioned below. { "OrderConfigId": "DefaultConfig", "ModTypeConfig": { "Actions": { "ModTypeConfigOverrides": "RESET" }, "ModType": { "ModTypeId": "OrderLine::AddressId" } } } The above-mentioned Mod Type override configurations can be turned on automatically by configuring the 'Enable Ship It Instead' checkbox on Order Configuration >> General Tab >> Ship It Instead checkbox.  Refer to Order Orchestration for more details. Confirmation Email & Text Configuration Enable "Ship It Instead Confirmation" email by referring to the Transactional Emails guide. Enable "Ship It Instead Confirmation" text by referring to the Transactional Texts guide. To trigger an email or text, the "UpdateBOPISToShipToAddress" is used. If you do not see this mod type in the Order Configuration UI, sync the mod types by calling the API: /order/api/order/orderConfig/sync. To trigger the outbound email message for "Ship It Instead Confirmation", select "Ship It Instead Confirmation" in the Email Message drop-down for this mod type. To trigger the outbound text message for "Ship It Instead Confirmation", select "Ship It Instead Confirmation" in the Text Message drop-down for this mod type. Store Fulfillment Configuration Configure Push Notification Template This template enables the "New pickup order to ship" push notification, which is used to alert the store associates at the store that an existing pickup order is converted to a shipment. Execute the following GET API to check if the PushNotificationForPickupToShipmentConversion Push Notification Template is already configured. API Name: URL: "/fulfillment/api/fulfillment/notificationTemplate" If it's not configured, then execute the following POST API to configure the template. API Name: URL: “/fulfillment/api/fulfillment/notificationTemplate” Payload: { "NotificationTemplateId": "PushNotificationForPickupToShipmentConversion", "Name": "PushNotificationForPickupToShipmentConversion", "TopicName": "common-notification.<#if StackName??>${StackName}.<#else></#if>${OrgId}.${ShipFromLocationId?replace(\":\",\"\")}", "Description": "Push notification template for pickup to shipment Conversion", "NotificationTitle": "New pickup order to ship", "ConditionalExpression": "DeliveryMethodId == \"ShipToAddress\" && IsPickupConvertToShipment == true && (MinStatusId == \"3000.000\" && MaxStatusId == \"3000.000\") || (MinStatusId == \"3300.000\" && MaxStatusId == \"3300.000\")", "NotificationSound": "defaultnotificationsound.mp3", "NotificationPriority": "High", "NotificationPayload": [ { "NotificationBody": "", "PageId": "work-default-list", "LocalizeLabelKey": "pickupToShipmentConversionLocalizedLabel", "PagePayload": [ { "PayloadValue": true }, { "PayloadKey": "workFlow", "PayloadValue": "pack" }, { "PayloadKey": "toastCSS", "PayloadValue": "pickup-to-shipment-pack" } ] } ] } Create Push Notification Template - Response{ "success": true, "header": null, "data": { "Messages": null, "ProfileId": "DZ-Ankit", "UpdatedTimestamp": "2021-09-02T13:07:04.826", "Description": "Push notification template for pickup to shipment Conversion", "NotificationSound": "defaultnotificationsound.mp3", "NotificationPriority": "High", "CreatedBy": "AnkitS", "CreatedTimestamp": "2021-09-02T13:07:04.826", "ConditionalExpression": "DeliveryMethodId == \"ShipToAddress\" && IsPickupConvertToShipment == true && MinStatusId == \"3000.000\" && MaxStatusId == \"3000.000\"", "Process": null, "TopicName": "common-notification.<#if StackName??>${StackName}.<#else></#if>${OrgId}.${ShipFromLocationId?replace(\":\",\"\")}", "Name": "PushNotificationForPickupToShipmentConversion", "UpdatedBy": "AnkitS", "NotificationTemplateId": "PushNotificationForPickupToShipmentConversion", "ContextId": "01a175f9-cd6f-498e-85b0-028dadec95d1", "PK": "6305880248258784570", "NotificationPayload": [ { "ProfileId": "DZ-Ankit", "PageId": "work-default-list", "PagePayload": [ { "ProfileId": "DZ-Ankit", "UpdatedBy": "AnkitS", "UpdatedTimestamp": "2021-09-02T13:07:04.841", "CreatedBy": "AnkitS", "CreatedTimestamp": "2021-09-02T13:07:04.841", "ContextId": "01a175f9-cd6f-498e-85b0-028dadec95d1", "Process": null, "PK": "6305880248408802150", "PayloadValue": "true", }, { "ProfileId": "DZ-Ankit", "PayloadKey": "workFlow", "UpdatedBy": "AnkitS", "UpdatedTimestamp": "2021-09-02T13:07:04.845", "CreatedBy": "AnkitS", "CreatedTimestamp": "2021-09-02T13:07:04.845", "ContextId": "01a175f9-cd6f-498e-85b0-028dadec95d1", "Process": null, "PK": "6305880248458818292", "PayloadValue": "pack", "Unique_Identifier": "6305880248458818292__workFlow" }, { "ProfileId": "DZ-Ankit", "PayloadKey": "toastCSS", "UpdatedBy": "AnkitS", "UpdatedTimestamp": "2021-09-02T13:07:04.846", "CreatedBy": "AnkitS", "CreatedTimestamp": "2021-09-02T13:07:04.846", "ContextId": "01a175f9-cd6f-498e-85b0-028dadec95d1", "Process": null, "PK": "6305880248458824914", "PayloadValue": "pickup-to-shipment-pack", "Unique_Identifier": "6305880248458824914__toastCSS" } ], "UpdatedTimestamp": "2021-09-02T13:07:04.833", "CreatedBy": "AnkitS", "CreatedTimestamp": "2021-09-02T13:07:04.833", "NotificationBody": "", "Process": null, "UpdatedBy": "AnkitS", "LocalizeLabelKey": "pickupToShipmentConversionLocalizedLabel", "ContextId": "01a175f9-cd6f-498e-85b0-028dadec95d1", "PK": "6305880248338795611", "Unique_Identifier": "6305880248338795611__work-default-list" } ], "Unique_Identifier": "6305880248258784570__PushNotificationForPickupToShipmentConversion", "NotificationTitle": "New pickup order to ship" }, "messageKey": null, "message": null, "errors": [], "exceptions": [], "messages": { "Message": [], "Size": 0 }, "rootCause": null, "requestUri": null, "statusCode": "OK" } Default Ship Via in Store This optional configuration defines the Ship Via Id to update to the converted fulfillment if the pickup fulfillment was not originally sent with a ship via. If a fulfillment does not have a ship via defined and this default is not defined, the ship via will remain null, and the store associate must enter a Carrier and Service Level during packing. Configuration Name: Select Ship Via for order which is converted from Pickup to Shipment Feature Scope Same Day Delivery orders are not eligible for conversion. No address updates are made to customer master records. The conversion applies to all the order lines in a release/store fulfillment. Partial release or partial quantity conversion is not supported. BOPIS to shipment conversion is currently not supported from the Contact Center UI. Implementation Flavors Ship It Instead via Native App or E-Commerce Items can be converted from BOPIS to shipment using the Save Order API, if a Ship It Instead feature is built into a native application or e-commerce front end. The following should be updated in the request for all order lines in the release: The delivery method should be updated to 'ShipToAddress'. The 'ShipToAddress' should be populated If the phone and email attributes are not populated in the ship to address order, the conversion request will fail. If the phone and email attributes are not populated in the ship to address - customer email and the customer phone populated on the order will be copied. A valid ShippingMethodId should be populated Sample Ship it Instead request JSON{ "OrderId": "BOPIS2STA10016", "OrderLine": [ { "OrderLineId": "1", "ShippingMethodId": "Standard", "DeliveryMethod": { "DeliveryMethodId": "ShipToAddress" }, "ShipToAddress": { "AddressTypeId": "Shipping", "CreatedBy": "ATG", "IsAddressVerified": true, "AddressName": "El Paso Texas", "Address": { "FirstName": "John", "LastName": "Mills", "Address1": "500 E ", "Address2": "San Antonio Ave", "Address3": "#123", "City": "El Paso", "State": "TX", "PostalCode": "79901", "County": "El Paso", "Country": "US", "Phone": "423-306-1973", "Email": "john@yahoo.com" } } }, { "OrderLineId": "2", "ShippingMethodId": "Standard", "DeliveryMethod": { "DeliveryMethodId": "ShipToAddress" }, "ShipToAddress": { "AddressTypeId": "Shipping", "CreatedBy": "ATG", "IsAddressVerified": true, "AddressName": "El Paso Texas", "Address": { "FirstName": "John", "LastName": "Mills", "Address1": "500 E ", "Address2": "San Antonio Ave", "Address3": "#123", "City": "El Paso", "State": "TX", "PostalCode": "79901", "County": "El Paso", "Country": "US", "Phone": "423-306-1973", "Email": "john@yahoo.com" } } } ] } Exclude ShipItInstead link from Pickup Reminders for Hazmat Items Refer here for the implementation. Why does Digital Self-service page display the same message for both customer initiated and store short ship it instead flows Issue: The Digital Self-Service review page shows the same message, "Enter your preferred shipping address to have your items shipped at no cost to you," for both customer-initiated and store short ship It Instead flows. The issue arises because the system only supports calculating the shipping address for customer-initiated no-show flows, but not for store short flows. Solution: Labels/headers cannot be customized specifically for customer initiated no show or store short ship it instead flows. However, you can modify them using the following path by working with the services team. Path: KV Store > localization> com-manh-cp-selfservice > pickupconversion > en > localization.properties UIs and Entities The configuration UIs mentioned in this document are tabulated below. UI Name Component Group Seed Data Present? Seed Data Profile Store Fulfillment Parameters Fulfillment Fulfillment Parameter Services Yes Base Services Listed below are the APIs referenced in this document. Service Component Group Service Endpoint Save Order Order Order Services /order/api/order/order/save Fulfillment Update Fulfillment Fulfillment Translate and Update Controller /fulfillment/api/fulfillment/fulfillment/update Troubleshooting The order is successfully converted from "Pickup at Store" to "Ship to Address" delivery method, but the corresponding fulfillment is not converted Ensure that api::fulfillment::transaction::admin or an even more influential grant (resource) is assigned to the role of the user invoking the API API Name: URL: "/organization/api/organization/grant/list/grantsForUser/{{userId}}" If not, then assign the grant using the System Admin user's access token: API Name: URL: “/organization/api/organization/grant/import” Payload: OrganizationId,RoleId,ResourceId {{OrgId}},{{RoleId}},api::fulfillment::transaction::admin When calling the conversion API, receiving the exception "Store <locationId> does not support delivery method conversion". The store should support conversion of the delivery method from PickupAtStore to ShipToAddress in Location > Location Fulfillment Attributes > Ship It Instead. Shipping and handling charges are not being calculated Verify if the shipping methods have a charge configured in shipping charges. Orders not moving the fulfillment from the Pickup to the Pack screen Check and validate the configurations here. Digital Self-Service UI not loading due to Cart Initialization Error Check the status of the process by calling the API GET /cart/api/cart/preview/config/sync/status This API returns the attributes below: Extended Attribute Sync Status (Values are Started, Failure, or Success) Config Entity Sync Status (Values are Started, Failure, or Success) Sync Status (Will be true if the other two attributes are in Success status) In case of failure, sync the configurations from order to cart component (obtain the configurations to be synced from logs). Related Articles Store-initiated Ship it Instead Customer-Initiated Ship it Instead due to Short