# Cycle Count Dashboard

**Permalink:** cycle-count-dashboard
**Content Length:** 15,404 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:36:47.116783

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Supply Chain Intelligence&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Supply Chain Intelligence - Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Dashboards ››Cycle Count Dashboard Cycle Count Dashboard Filtering DataMetric ResultsVisualizations The Cycle Count dashboard provides an extensive set of analytics, allowing you to oversee and monitor inventory count statuses within a store. With this dashboard, you can assess the effectiveness of cycle count operations across various stores and locations and implement actions to address any discrepancies.&nbsp;This dashboard includes data&nbsp;for cycle count metrics like variance, under-counted units, over-counted units and open counts. You can access this dashboard&nbsp;in IBM Cognos by navigating to&nbsp;Team Content &gt; SCI Packaged Content &gt; Packaged Dashboards &gt; OMNI &gt; Cycle Count Dashboard &nbsp; Filtering Data The following table explains the different filters that you can apply on the dashboard, and it returns the data that meets the filter condition: Filter Name Description Location You can select one or many store locations for which you want to view the inventory count details. Location Name You can select a location name for the corresponding location. Cycle Count ID You can select a cycle count request ID from a host of IDs. Item Product Class You can select the product class of the item. Item Style You can choose the style of the item. Item Department You can choose the item department. Counter You can choose the counter. Count Date You can choose the date for which they want to filter the data. Count Week You can choose the week for which they want to see the data. &nbsp; Metric Results The Metric Results section provides the results for the dimensions filtered as the user selects different values in either visualizations and/or the filter section. The following table provides a list of metrics available on this dashboard. Metrics Name Description Calculations Variance This metric returns the difference in the expected quantity and the counted quantity of the cycle count. 1. Determines Variance Qty: Counted Qty - Expected Qty 2. (Variance Qty / Expected Qty) * 100 Note: if the counted quantity is 0 and the expected quantity is greater than 0, the variance percentage is set to 100%. Under Counted Units This metric returns the number of counted units less than the expected quantity. 1. Retrieves records with Counted Qty &lt; Expected Qty 2. For each record, the under-counted quantity is&nbsp; Expected Qty - Counted Qty 3. Adds Under Count across all records. Over Counted Units This metric returns the number of counted units that are more than expected quantity. 1. Retrieves records with Counted Qty &gt; Expected Qty 2. For each record, the over counted quantity is Counted Qty - Expected Qty 3. Adds OverCount across all records. Open Counts This metric returns the number of open counts. COUNT SIM_COUNT_REQUEST.PK where SIM_COUNT_REQUEST.MAX_STATUS_ID = 1000 In Progress Counts This metric returns the number of counts that are in progress. COUNT SIM_COUNT_REQUEST.PK where SIM_COUNT_REQUEST.MAX_STATUS_ID = 2000 Closed Counts This number represents the number of closed counts COUNT SIM_COUNT_REQUEST.PK where SIM_COUNT_REQUEST.MAX_STATUS_ID = 4000 Approved Counts This number represents the number of approved counts COUNT SIM_COUNT_REQUEST.PK where SIM_COUNT_REQUEST.MAX_STATUS_ID = 3000 &nbsp; Visualizations This dashboard contains several metrics and visualizations that help analyze the cycle count data for your stores. Open Count by Age in Hours This donut&nbsp;visualization gives the open count segregated based on age in hours. This visualization adopts the following pattern: When the difference between the current date/time and the created timestamp is less than or equal to 24 hours, then the visualization displays the data under the &#39;0-24&#39; category. When the difference is greater than 25 hours, but less than or equal to 48, the data is displayed under the &#39;25-48&#39; category. When the difference is greater than 48, then the visualization displays data under the &#39;48+&#39; category. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;The color code has been enabled for better visualization. Completed Counts Compared to Open Counts: Locations with the Most Open Counts This visualization gives a comparison between the completed and open counts across locations. The x-axis provides a list of locations, the primary y-axis represents the completed units, and the secondary y-axis represents the number of open counts. This visualization is a combination of a line and a bar representation, where the line depicts the number of open counts for a given location and the bar displays the number of completed counts.&nbsp; Departments with the Highest Discrepancy Counts This visualization shows the departments with the highest discrepancy counts. The x-axis represents the departments and y-axis represents the sum of discrepancy counts. The color code has been enabled for better visualization. &nbsp; Under and&nbsp;Over Counted Units, Locations with the Most Undercounts This&nbsp;visualization depicts a comparison of the under and over counts across locations. The x-axis represents the list of locations and y-axis represents the amount of discrepancy. For each cycle count request location ID, this visualization retrieves records where the expected quantity is not equal to the counted quantity.&nbsp;The following table summarizes the parameters considered for this comparison: The color code has been enabled for better visualization. &nbsp; Over Count This data considers the sum of overcounts across records where the expected quantity is less than the counted quantity. Under Count This data considers the sum of undercounts across records where the expected quantity is more than the counted quantity. The color code has been enabled for better visualization. &nbsp; &nbsp;