# Cycle Count Configuration

**Permalink:** cycle-count-configuration
**Content Length:** 15,954 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:36:22.501137

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Inventory & Fulfillment&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Inventory Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Cycle Count ››Cycle Count Configuration Cycle Counting Configuration Cycle Counting ConfigurationStore Inventory ParametersAllow multiple users to countSubmit zero quantity for uncounted itemsBypass missing counts UI upon submit for single userReview counts that exceed the variance thresholdReview Quantity Variance ThresholdReview Percentage Variance ThresholdExclude Picked and Packed quantities while determining Cycle Count VariancePublish outbound on approvalStore Dispositions&nbsp;Default navigation to the Items to count screen&nbsp;Item-level reviewShow additional item detailsSuppress item quantity popupGroupingCycle UIs and Entities Store Inventory Parameters Store Inventory Parameters can be configured for a location, group of locations (i.e. Store profile type) or at an organization level. Allow multiple users to count Enable this parameter if multiple associates should be allowed to perform counting for the same cycle count request. By default, this configuration is false. Submit zero quantity for uncounted items This parameter determines how uncounted items are updated. If this parameter is set to true, the count quantity of any uncounted items is updated to zero. If set to false, the&nbsp;quantity of uncounted lines remains null and the status is updated to "Declined". This parameter is only referenced for uncounted items which enter&nbsp;the Final Updates process, not for items that were marked by the counter as "out of stock" from the missing count UI list. The default value of this parameter is false. "Declined" status indicates that the counter decided not to count (i.e. ignore) the item for any reason such as the store does not keep or discontinued the item. Inventory updates sent&nbsp;to Inventory management systems do&nbsp;not include declined items.&nbsp; Bypass missing counts UI upon submit for single user This parameter is applicable when the "Allow multiple users to count" parameter is set to&nbsp;false, and is ignored if that parameter is set to true.&nbsp;If this is set to true, the Missing Counts UI is bypassed if any uncounted items exist when the user submits the count.&nbsp;If set to false, the Missing Counts UI is presented to the user to review items not counted. The default value of this parameter is false. Review counts that exceed the variance threshold This controls whether the review process is required or not. This parameter is set to true by default. When set to true, any count variance is checked against both variance thresholds parameters below. If either the quantity or percentage variance crosses the configured threshold, the line will require review. If&nbsp;set to false, all the cycle count lines are automatically approved as the counts are submitted. This setting bypasses the manual review process. Review Quantity Variance Threshold This parameter defines the maximum variance quantity that is allowed before an item count must be reviewed. For example, if this is set to 5 and the count line&nbsp;is submitted with variance &gt;&nbsp;5, the count line will require manual review. Lines submitted with variance &lt;= 5 will be auto-approved with no manual review required. Note that setting this to zero will cause any variance to require review. If a line is submitted with zero variance, then the line is auto-approved, i.e. no review required.&nbsp; Review Percentage Variance Threshold This parameter defines the maximum variance percentage that is allowed before an item count is reviewed. For example, if this is set to 15% and the count line&nbsp;is submitted with variance &gt; 15%, the count line will require manual review. Lines submitted with variance &lt;= 15% will be auto-approved with no manual review required.&nbsp;Note that setting this to zero will cause any variance to require review.&nbsp;If a line is submitted with zero variance, then the line is auto-approved, i.e. no review required. Note: The threshold variance can be configured either for quantity or percentage. If both values are configured, then it is considered an incorrect business configuration. Exclude Picked and Packed quantities while determining Cycle Count Variance This controls whether the picked and packed quantities of the items whose Cycle Count is requested are to be excluded from the expected quantity used to determine the Cycle Count variance. This configuration is available in the Cycle Counts tab and is disabled by default. This implies that the perpetual inventory quantity of the configured store disposition is straightaway used as the expected quantity when determining cycle count quantity variance. When this configuration is, however, set to true, the picked and packed quantities of the requested items are reduced from their perpetual quantities to arrive at the expected quantities eventually used to calculate variances, if any.&nbsp; Publish outbound on approval This configuration allows sending a cycle count outbound to host systems when a cycle count request is approved (Counting and review get&nbsp;completed). This parameter is set to false by default. When set to true, the cycle count outbound message is published to the outbound queue, "countRequest-queue-sim", which can be consumed by the host systems. Store Dispositions Within Store Dispositions&nbsp;configuration, the&nbsp;"Store Disposition used for Cycle Counting" flag&nbsp;identifies&nbsp;which store disposition is used&nbsp;to update inventory. The inventory snapshot at the time of initiation of the cycle count is captured for this store disposition, and inventory updates are performed for the same store disposition. A&nbsp;store disposition should be configured with "Store Disposition used for Cycle Counting" set to True. If not configured, the "Sellable Stock" store disposition&nbsp;is used as default. Note: Only one store disposition should be set to True for "Store Disposition used for Cycle Counting", only one store disposition is allowed for Cycle Count, users cannot select multiple dispositions. &nbsp;Default navigation to the Items to count screen This configuration allows users to navigate to the items to count screen after selecting the cycle count for counting. By default, this configuration is set as "False" (unchecked). Configuration Name:&nbsp;Navigate to the items to count&nbsp;screen by default &nbsp;Item-level review This configuration allows store users to navigate to the review counts screen after an item is counted.&nbsp;By default, this configuration is set as "False" (unchecked). Configuration Name:&nbsp;Enable item-level review &nbsp; Note: If item-level review is enabled, it is recommended to enable the "Navigate to items to count&nbsp;screen by default" flag. Note: Since item-level review is not supported with&nbsp;the multiple counter flow, this parameter should be disabled if the "Allow multiple users to count" flag is enabled. Show additional item details If this configuration is enabled, the item image, department, style, color, and size are displayed for each item directly on the counting, items to count&nbsp;and review screens without having to navigate to the item details screen. This configuration is disabled by default. Suppress item quantity popup This configuration allows users to suppress the item quantity popup when scanning or entering the item code for counting in the "Items to count" screen. The item quantity popup is shown to the user when the user&nbsp;swipes the item and clicks on the quantity to manually enter the quantity.&nbsp;By default, this configuration is set as "False" (unchecked). Configuration Name:&nbsp;Suppress item quantity popup when scanning an item for counting in Items to Count scree Grouping This configuration defines whether grouping is used on the Items to Count UI.&nbsp;Supported levels are no grouping, store department grouping and path optimization grouping.The default behavior is no grouping. If using path optimization grouping, refer to the Picking configuration guide. Configuration Name: Support Grouping for Cycle Counts Ensure that the purposes listed below have been copied from the base profile to your&nbsp;custom profile. Profile Purposes to copy from base to custom profile sim::inventoryConfig Cycle UIs and Entities The configuration UIs mentioned in this document are listed in the following table,&nbsp;along with information to&nbsp;navigate&nbsp;to the API documentation. UI Name Component Group Seed Data Present? Seed Data Profile Store Inventory Parameter sim StoreInventoryParameters Services Yes Base Store Dispositions sim StoreDisposition Services Yes Base