# Data Security Guide

**Permalink:** data-security-guide
**Content Length:** 5,364 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:39:47.060744

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Administrator Tools ››Data Security Guide Data Security Guide Security ControlsData Stored in Manhattan Active&reg; OmniReference Materials Manhattan Associates is committed to the security of your data. This guide describes the service commitments, including policies and procedures in place for the Manhattan Active solutions. Our commitments fall within the Service Organization Control (SOC) 2 and are audited annually by a member of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA), with reference to Statement on Standards for Attestation Engagement (SSAE-18) and International Standard on Assurance Engagements Standards (IASB ISAE 3000). After each audit, an Auditor&rsquo;s Report is delivered to Manhattan Associates attesting to the findings for each stated commitment. The report can be reviewed if a business need is established. We are bound to 100+ controls within the following trust service criteria: Security Availability Confidentiality Process Integrity Security Controls Manhattan Associates has active hosted security controls in place, including: Vulnerability management Configuration baselines, including Firewall settings which can be adjusted for unique implementation requirements Privileged System Access is restricted only to those in Active Operations, which is a separate business unit within Manhattan Associates Business Function Access is restricted and access is managed by the customer Manhattan Associates&nbsp;does not access customer&rsquo;s data; customer data is segregated 24/7/365 operation center and ActiveEye monitoring, which is a Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) solution Manhattan hosts provide&nbsp;security solutions for detection, prevention, DDOS, and OS inventory management to supplement other controls (this is redundant to ActiveEye) Data Stored in Manhattan Active&reg; Omni Customer data stored in&nbsp;Active Omni includes: Customer name Address (Street, City, State, Postal Code) Phone Email PII is encrypted at rest and in transmission. Manhattan Active&reg; Omni does not collect, store, process, or manage any PCI cardholder data. Manhattan Associates currently does not have a PCI AOC for the Manhattan Active&reg; Omni(MAO) solution. Manhattan develops and provides the application, but the application does not collect, store, process, transmit, manage, or receive card holder data on behalf of any clients. The MAO application architecture is not developed with input fields to receive card data, but rather wholly redirects clients to their selected 3rd party payment gateway for transmission and processing. Only non-reversable tokens, and the last 4 digits of end user PAN can be captured by the MAO application. Clients should ensure their selected payment processor has a PCI AOC to cover the applicable cardholder data (CHD) payment processing. Reference Materials To view a SOC 3 or SOC 2 report for Manhattan Active solutions, please reach out to the Manhattan Associates legal team or your service&nbsp;contact.