# DC Inventory

**Permalink:** dc-inventory
**Content Length:** 18,443 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:37:50.097632

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process &amp; Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Allocation&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Inventory ››DC Inventory DC Inventory Previous&nbsp;I&nbsp;Next &nbsp; OverviewDC SupplyProcess FlowHigh Level Process Flow&nbsp;Supply UpdatesProcessing Eligible suppliesReview , Approval and Release of Allocated SuppliesInventory ReservationReconciling Available Inventory and Reservations Against DC shipmentsConfigurationImplementation FlavorsTroubleshootingRelated Articles Overview Inventory is the most important asset for a retailer. It is extremely crucial that at all times, there is visibility of the available inventory for effective allocation. It includes all inventory in the distribution centers as well as&nbsp;the stores. Inventory could further be classified as on-hand inventory and future inventory.&nbsp; Allocation will allocate&nbsp;the DC inventory&nbsp;to the stores by considering the store needs and inventory available at the stores. When inventory is allocated to stores, the inventory gets reserved for respective stores at the DC against the store order so that it is not available for other orders. Once DC ships&nbsp;the inventory as per the order, the available inventory and inventory reservation is reconciled. &nbsp; DC Supply A DC supply can&nbsp;be two types: &nbsp; On Hand Inventory : It is the DC inventory available for immediate shipment against an order; it excludes any quantities already allocated to a store or other channel. On-hand inventory does not have an estimated date as it is physically available at the DC. Hence, the&nbsp;on-hand available&nbsp;inventory is available to be allocated to the stores. Future Inventory: It is the inventory that is going to be available in the DC in the near future. Future Inventory could again be further divided as Purchase Order&nbsp;(PO) and Advance Shipment Notice&nbsp;(ASN). Purchase Order (PO) is the order confirmation sent by the retailer to the vendor for buying the inventory. Some retailers send back the entire inventory against the same purchase order. Advance Shipment Notice&nbsp;(ASN) is the shipment confirmation notice from the vendor. It will have details like&nbsp;whether the order is fulfilled fully or partially , in single shipment or multiple etc. POs and ASNs will have a future ETA for availability at the DC. Only the future supplies within the user-specified threshold date are eligible to be allocated. Typically, pre-allocations for stores are done for the pre-season phase&nbsp;against the POs or&nbsp;ASNs so that the DCs can be prepared ahead of time for the picking and packing of the merchandise inventory. &nbsp; Process Flow &nbsp; High Level Process Flow &nbsp; Detailed Process Flow - DC Inventory &nbsp; &nbsp;Supply Updates When the vendor&nbsp;sends a new PO or ASN or there is a change in on-hand available inventory at the warehouse, the inventory system gets a notification about the supply change event. &nbsp; Sample Json &nbsp; The inventory system processes the supply change event and communicates it further to the allocation system. &nbsp; Sample Json Supply Update Json{ &nbsp; &quot;data&quot;: [ &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;HashId&quot;: &quot;56abac9544153850a0837189a034f82&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;Organization&quot;: &quot;pfioorg&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;User&quot;: &quot;admin@pfioorg.com&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;BatchNumber&quot;: &quot;&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;InventoryType&quot;: &quot;&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;LocationId&quot;: &quot;SoutheDakota-DC&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;CountryOfOrigin&quot;: &quot;&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ProductStatus&quot;: &quot;&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;Quantity&quot;: 150, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ItemId&quot;: &quot;Calvadoss&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;SupplyTypeId&quot;: &quot;On Order&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;InventoryAttribute1&quot;: &quot;&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;InventoryAttribute2&quot;: &quot;&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;InventoryAttribute3&quot;: &quot;&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;InventoryAttribute4&quot;: &quot;&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;InventoryAttribute5&quot;: &quot;&quot; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; } &nbsp; ], &nbsp; &quot;ConsolidatedPayload&quot;: true } &nbsp; Processing Eligible supplies Supply Eligibility Flow &nbsp; On receiving the notification, the allocation system will evaluate which supplies will be allocated. On-hand supplies are available in the warehouse, so they are all eligible to be allocated. In case of future supplies, only those PO and ASN supplies that have ETA within the user-specified horizon from the current business date are eligible for allocation. Allocation will process these supplies and calculate the suggested allocated quantity (RAQ) based on the store needs. &nbsp; Review , Approval and Release of Allocated Supplies Allocators will review the allocated supplies and submit them for approval from supervisors. Supervisors will review the submitted supplies and approve these supplies to be released. On approval, the allocated supplies can be released to the downstream systems (Inventory and warehouse systems) for executing the inventory allocation. On release of the allocation order, we will see the store allocated quantity as on-order inventory for the respective store. &nbsp; Inventory Reservation Once the allocated supplies are released, the inventory system will reserve the inventory against the store allocation order. This will ensure that the inventory is not available for other orders. &nbsp; Get Reservation Request&nbsp; {{url}}/inventory/api/inventory/reservationRequest&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;{ &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;RequestId&quot;: &quot;RR:Nav:64&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;IsConfirmed&quot;: true, &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;Actiion&quot;: { &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;ReservationRequestDetail&quot;: &quot;RESET&quot; &nbsp; &nbsp; }, &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;ReservationRequestDetail&quot;: [ &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; { &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;ReservationRequestSubDetail&quot;: [ &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; { &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;ReservationRequestSubDetailId&quot;: &quot;SD:03&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;DemandTypeId&quot;: &quot;Inventory Optimization&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;Rank&quot;: 1 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; } &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; ], &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;FulfillmentGroupId&quot;: &quot;1&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;ItemId&quot;: &quot;Ethnix-Black-L&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;EffectiveRank&quot;: &quot;9&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;ReservationRequestDetailId&quot;: &quot;1&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;LocationId&quot;: &quot;Houston-DC&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;DemandType&quot;: &quot;Inventory Optimization&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;Quantity&quot;: 6.0 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; } &nbsp; &nbsp; ] } &nbsp; Reconciling Available Inventory and Reservations Against DC shipments Once the allocated supplies are released, the warehouse system receives retail orders for respective stores for allocation. Based on the inventory availability, warehouse management will ship and short the inventory and ship the store order. The available inventory and reservations are reconciled based on the DC shipment. &nbsp; Sample Example : &nbsp; &nbsp; Configuration Configure the Allocation Horizon to select eligible supplies &nbsp; Allocation Horizon Configuration&nbsp;{{url}}//ai-allocation/api/ai-allocation/allocationConfig/save&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;{ &quot;ConfigId&quot; : &quot;AllocationHorizon&quot;, &quot;ConfigValue&quot; : &quot;13&quot;, &quot;Name&quot;: &quot;Allocation Horizon Days&quot;, &quot;Description&quot;: &quot;The number of days prior to supply available date to release orders from future supplies&quot;, &quot;Component&quot;: &quot;com-manh-cp-ai-allocation&quot; &nbsp; &nbsp; Implementation Flavors NA &nbsp; Troubleshooting NA Related Articles Inventory PullbackOverstock TransfersInventory SegmentationStore Inventory &nbsp;