# Demand Forecasting

**Permalink:** demand-forecasting-overview
**Content Length:** 18,123 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:37:19.054453

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process &amp; Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Demand Forecasting ››Demand Forecasting Demand Forecasting Previous&nbsp;I&nbsp;Next OverviewWhy do we need to do forecasting for any item at an item location?Process FlowInteractions of the forecasting component with other components.ConfigurationRelated Articles Overview Accurate forecasts are required to ensure retailers have the right product at the right time, while avoiding overstocks and lost sales. Managing volumes of complex and continuously evolving demand patterns presents a common problem for suppliers, manufacturers and retailers. Forecasting should enable our wholesale and retail customers to focus on their key goal to buy and plan profitability, rather than spending their time analyzing forecasting components. Demand Forecasting is an application that helps users predict future demand using statistical techniques over historical demand data. The primary function of this application is to generate periodic forecasts considering the factors affecting demand, like seasonal impacts, promotions ,lost sales, demographics etc. Demand Forecasting also generates seasonal profiles, business events that define promotions or other special selling events and reduces the number of forecasting exceptions users must review. &nbsp; Why do we need to do forecasting for any item at an item location? This application produces forecasts that may be used by other applications such as replenishment and planning systems. &nbsp; Replenishment System Planning System Usage: The demand forecast is used to determine how much inventory to buy, how long inventory will last and how much safety stock to have, in order to cover demand variability. Use the forecast in order to calculate to determine the suggested order quantity (SOQ). Replenishment can also use the seasonal profiles and business events to determine how much product to buy when purchased into a longer time horizon. Usage: Deals with longer time horizon Needs forecast for each period represented in the merchandise plan Impact High Forecast: Increased inventory leads to higher carrying costs for stocking high. Higher Shelf space requirement. &nbsp; Impact High Forecast: Planners buy against OTB (Open to Buy), which is the amount planners have available to spend purchasing new goods. Increased Overstocked Location Reduced OTB (prevents planners to purchase sell well goods) Higher markdown liability Impact - Low Forecast Decrease in Service Level Increase in Out of Stock Period Acquisition cost increases if an emergency order is placed. Lost sales, increased costs and poor customer service due to inaccurate forecasts, out-of-stock, overstocks, unsuccessful promotions, markdowns and out-of-season Items play havoc with a company&rsquo;s bottom line. Impact - Low Forecast Lost Sales Higher Out of Stock &nbsp; Process Flow Interactions of the forecasting component with other components. The first step is to set up master data and this includes interaction with the Item Component to create an item. Next,&nbsp;create locations with a Location Component, which can be a store location or DC location. Associate this item and location to obtain Item Location using the ItemLocation component. Fetch the metric data by interacting with the demand metrics component for a particular Item Location. Further, the forecast calculations arise according to the process flow above, and thus we have forecast values as end results. &nbsp; &nbsp; The following factors that can affect the forecast are as follows: Seasonal impacts:&nbsp;Year on year we have a pattern of how climate impacts the demand for an item in a particular season. Say, during the rainy season for umbrellas, sunscreens during summer, school supplies during the back-to-school season. Promotions:&nbsp;When there is a promotional event going on, the demand spikes during that time. Say there is a Black Friday sale, there is more demand for products as the sale is bringing prices down and attracting more consumers. Irregular demand resulting from short life-cycles or intermittent demand:&nbsp;When there is no particular demand pattern that can be carved out, but unusual demand for short-lived time can occur. Say a celebrity uses an item in a public forum and there is a sudden spike in demand for it. This cannot be for the long term and also short-lived. Demand Frequency: How often the demand occurs for an item at any location at a point of time. Lost Sales: When a customer arrives at the store and a product is not available to pick up,&nbsp;then this is considered as lost sales for the store. Competition:&nbsp;If there are competitors in the market for any item which is in huge demand by consumers, demand will be less for that item. Product life cycle Stages: Soft-liners are observed and considered for products which undergo change in their lifecycle in stages. Demographics: Based on the location, the forecast also varies, keeping in mind various factors, say culture, climate etc. Taking these factors into consideration, the forecast gets calculated. &nbsp; Configuration Master Data Setup : APIs configuration details step by step: &nbsp; Step 1 : Set up the Item and Location at DC/Store &nbsp; {{url}}/item/api/item/item/save &nbsp; Step 2 : Set Up Store Location Creation&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; {{url}}/itemlocation/api/itemlocation/itemLocation/save&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Step 3: Saving the Item Location for Item at a particular Location. &nbsp; &nbsp;{{url}}/itemlocation/api/itemlocation/itemLocation/save&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Step 4: Item location Source and Sourcing Relationship for the item location created. &nbsp; &nbsp;{{url}}/itemlocation/api/itemlocation/itemLocationSource/save&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;{{url}}/itemlocation/api/itemlocation/sourcingRelationship/save&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Step 5: Save demand metrics for the item at the location. &nbsp; &nbsp; {{url}}/ai-demandmetrics/api/ai-demandmetrics/metric&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Step 6: Create Forecast Policy &nbsp; &nbsp;{url}}/ai-forecast/api/ai-forecast/forecastPolicy/save&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Step 7: Initialize the Forecast by running the API below : &nbsp; {{url}}/ai-forecast/api/ai-forecast/forecastPolicy/initializeForecast/FRP_331 &nbsp; Step 8: Search for the forecast running below API : &nbsp; &nbsp;{{url}}/ai-forecast/api/ai-forecast/forecast/&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Response would have the forecast details for this at item location. &nbsp; Related Articles &nbsp; Forecast AnalysisForecast Assignment CriteriaFuture Forecast AdjustmentsNew Item Location Auto-AssociatonAggregated Seasonal Profile Forecast ExceptionsManual Forecast ChangeDemand Classification &amp; CleansingForecast InitializationLost Sales for Forecasting Forecast SummaryDay of Week ProfileForecast UpdateExclusions RulesSeasonal Profiling &nbsp;