# Demand Type

**Permalink:** demand-type
**Content Length:** 8,971 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:35.339900

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Configurations&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Forecast ››Demand Type Demand Type &nbsp; Demand TypeFiltersCreating a Demand TypeEditing Demand TypeDetails ViewDeleting a&nbsp;Demand TypeField Description Demand Type enables you to configure&nbsp;combining demand values of multiple metric types together for forecasting.&nbsp;Users can also add more metric type(s) to an existing demand-type after it has been used in setting up a forecast policy. In that case, users will need to re-initialize forecasts for each forecast policy using that demand type. Demand Types need to be configured prior to creating forecast policies. Example: Demand Type Id = &lsquo;Ship from Store&rsquo; Metric Types include: &lsquo;Next Day Ship&rsquo;, &lsquo;Two Day Ship&rsquo; &nbsp; Filters The&nbsp;demand type filters are: 1)&nbsp;Demand Type Id 2) Description &nbsp; Creating a Demand Type To create a new demand-type: Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Configuration&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Forecast &gt; Demand Type Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Click&nbsp;Create&nbsp;to view the Demand Type&nbsp;window. On the&nbsp;Demand Type&nbsp;page, enter a unique Demand Type Id of the organization. Enter the Description of the demand type. Click&nbsp;Save and continue. To Add Metric Types, Click Add New. The Metric Type Lookup window opens. Enter the Metric Type Id and click Search.&nbsp;&lsquo;*&rsquo; wildcard can be used to search for all Metric Types. Select the metric type id and Submit. Click Save And Finish. Editing Demand Type To edit demand-type: &nbsp; Swipe-out List Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Configuration&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Forecast &gt; Demand Type Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Select the required demand type&nbsp;record. Swipe-out the menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Edit. In the&nbsp;Demand Type&nbsp;window, modify the required fields. Click&nbsp;Save&nbsp;to save the modified demand type&nbsp;details. Edit View Select the required demand type record card. The action buttons are displayed in the footer section. Click&nbsp;Edit&nbsp;to view the&nbsp;Demand Type&nbsp;window, modify the required fields. Click&nbsp;Save&nbsp;to save the&nbsp;modified demand type&nbsp;details. Details View &nbsp; Swipe Out List Select the required demand type record. Swipe-out menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Details. In the&nbsp;Demand Type&nbsp;wizard, you can view the details of the demand type. Details View Select the required record card and you can view the action&nbsp;buttons displayed on the footer section. Click&nbsp;Details&nbsp;from the action button to view&nbsp;details of demand type. Deleting a&nbsp;Demand Type &nbsp; The demand type&nbsp; records can be deleted by following one of the below procedures: Swipe-out List Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Configuration&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Forecast &gt; Demand Type Swipe-out menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts as &#39;Deletion of demand type is irreversible&#39;. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the demand type. Delete Select the required record card. The footer section with action buttons is displayed. Select&nbsp;Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts as &#39;Deletion of demand type is irreversible&#39;. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the demand type. Note:&nbsp; 1) The user can delete the demand type that is not associated with the forecast policies. 2)&nbsp; If the user wants to delete the demand type associated with forecast policy, the following validation message will be displayed. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;For example, Demand Type BOPIS is already associated to Forecast Policies {{Forecast policies names}}&nbsp;(DT::116) &nbsp; Field Description Following are the field descriptions of the attributes available on the screen. &nbsp; Field &nbsp; Description &nbsp; Demand Type Id The unique demand-type identifier. Description The description of&nbsp;the demand type. Metric Type Id The metric type identifier. &nbsp; Action Buttons Following are the action buttons available on the screen. &nbsp; Select All Rows Selects all the rows of records on the screen. Export Exports the list of demand type attributes, the file will be downloaded onto your system. View&nbsp;Export&nbsp;for more information. Create Opens the&nbsp;Demand Type&nbsp;window.&nbsp; Deselect Clears the selected records. Edit Opens the relevant&nbsp;Demand Type&nbsp;window to edit the records. Details Opens the relevant&nbsp;Demand Type&nbsp;window&nbsp;to view and edit the records.