# Denmark

**Permalink:** denmark
**Content Length:** 5,818 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:35:50.956324

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Point of Sale&rsaquo;&rsaquo;POS Classic Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;POS Classic Fiscalization and Globalization ››Denmark Denmark OverviewTax ConfigurationReceipt ConfigurationServices Overview Denmark&#39;s main state institution engaged in economic and tax topics is&nbsp; the Danish Tax Agency (Skattestyrelsen- SKAT), which comes under the Danish Minister for Taxation. Regarding fiscalization rules, Denmark is not a fiscal country. There is no mandate for any hardware or software fiscalization. There is also no specific rules for certification of the point of sale. There are no specific fiscalization rules to be applied per transaction or for a receipt. The only compliance for a retailer is to keep the records intact for all transactions and taxes owed on the transactions. Language:&nbsp;There is only one official language, Danish. A good majority of the population speak English as their second language. Although there are no explicit legal requirements, it is assumed that the POS application should support Danish.&nbsp; As per the receipts themselves, it is also expected that they are preferred to be presented&nbsp;in Danish. The locale can be configured as detailed in the&nbsp;localization configuration&nbsp;guide. Currency:&nbsp;The official currency of Denmark is &quot;Danish Krone&quot;. The official currency code (ISO currency standard) is &quot;DKK&quot;.&nbsp; The currency denomination can be configured as detailed in the&nbsp;localization configuration&nbsp;guide. Tax Configuration Value Added Tax (VAT) is a tax on sales. The VAT payer, who must previously register for VAT with the&nbsp;Tax Administration, charges his customers a tax proportional to the price of the goods sold&nbsp;for the services rendered. This tax must be paid by the taxpayer to the tax authority&nbsp;after deduction of the VAT charged to him by his own suppliers (input tax). Natural or legal persons are subject to VAT if they independently and regularly carry out an economic activity of any kind, regardless of the purpose or the results of this activity and the place of execution.&nbsp; VAT&nbsp;Rates: VAT rates are categorized into buckets below. * Standard/Normal tax rate 25% VAT Tax Configuration:&nbsp;The information about configuring the country&nbsp;as VAT is&nbsp;detailed in the&nbsp;localization configuration&nbsp;guide. Receipt Configuration A receipt is a conclusive document that confirms that payment has been made for a service/goods.&nbsp;A generated receipt needs to include: Company information Date and time of issue Store id Total amount paid including VAT VAT breakdown Discounts Item description Quantity Additionally, best practice is also to include items. All additional information such as pictures, barcodes, QR codes, promotional messages, etc. can be included as there are no legal requirements. Receipt Configuration: Configuring receipts specific for a country&nbsp;is&nbsp;detailed in the&nbsp;localization configuration&nbsp;guide. Services There are no specific services exposed for Denmark localization. &nbsp; &nbsp; * The fiscal guidelines and numbers (annual turn over, tax rates)&nbsp;are as of Jan-2024, which might be subjected to change as per local laws.