# Device Information

**Permalink:** device-information
**Content Length:** 9,233 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:39:11.680438

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Administrator Tools&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store ››Device Information Device Information OverviewDevice Info UITrack Critical Event Overview The Active Omni Store application maintains a record of all the devices that use the Store&nbsp;application on the devices. This information is helpful to understand the type of devices used by the retailer along with the application versions installed.&nbsp; Users&nbsp;who have the required permission&nbsp;can view and manage the device&#39;s information records. Device Info UI All devices&nbsp;running the Active Omni Store application are added to the &quot;Device Info&quot; in the device management Component. We can view this information by navigating to Device Info UI in Active Omni Application. For each device, the following fields are displayed with a set of values if applicable. Users can filter and sort the records as needed: Remote ID - Unique Id&nbsp;generated for identifying the device uniquely. The remoteId is the same as the Device Id present in the &quot;Settings-POS&quot; screen of the store application. Location ID - Store Location ID User ID - User logged into the device Log level - The current&nbsp;log level configured on the device. Base App Version - Displays Manhattan Active Omni&trade; Store Application base version Custom App Version - Displays the custom app version built on top of the base application Base Build Date - &nbsp;Base build date of the application Custom Build Date - Custom build date of the application Platform - The device platform&nbsp;iOS, Android, Windows OS Version - OS version of the device IOS 15, Android 10 etc Model - Model name of the device Register Type - Fixed or Mobile Last Updated TimeStamp -&nbsp;Represents the last time when the device information&nbsp;is&nbsp;updated. Also, on every successful login,&nbsp;a&nbsp;record is created/updated for the user. Once a mobile device is added to the Device Info list, it remains there forever. If the retailer wishes to remove any devices from the list (i.e, when the device is lost or stolen, or the Store application was removed&nbsp;from the device), a delete function is available. The delete action is controlled by a separate resource from the menu resource. Below are certain actions that can be performed using &quot;Device Info&quot; page and their respective&nbsp;resources.&nbsp;Refer to Instruction Set&nbsp;for more actions on this UI. &nbsp; SCREEN ACTION RESOURCE ID DESCRIPTION Device Info Menu from Home screen omnifacade::devicemgmt::deviceInfo::read Resource Id is needed for the userID to access the&nbsp;Device Info screen from the home screen of omnifacade and also to&nbsp; view the device info related parameters that are generated. Device info Delete omnifacade::devicemgmt::deviceInfo::delete Resource Id needed to delete the device that got registered in the device management component &nbsp; Track Critical Event Critical events are events that occur within the store application that either represent a critical business failure or a technical event that helps with understanding&nbsp;the application performance and troubleshoot the failures.&nbsp; The Manhattan Active Store application identifies such&nbsp;critical events and records the same in a table in the Device Management component.&nbsp;When a&nbsp;critical event occurs,&nbsp;the application prepares an event header containing the event id, event name, event description, timestamp and other device details and stores it to the local database of the device. For certain critical events, we can also pass page names (ScreenId) , API URLs and also transaction details like orderId (as referenceId). Then, along with the header information, it&nbsp;also fetches the detailed logs that led&nbsp;to that event. Once these details are gathered, the same will be pushed to the server. Below is the list of events marked as &quot;critical&quot;: Critical Event Critical Event Description APP_CRASH Event when the application crashes abruptly. The event will be logged to the server only after the next login. APP_FORCE_CLOSE Event when the user kills or closes the application. The event will be logged to the server only after the next login. INACTIVITY_TIMEOUT Event when the application logs the user out after being idle for a definite time (referred to as Inactivity timer) ERROR_AFTER_PAYMENT Event when application throws an error after payment is processed. RETRY_AFTER_PAYMENT Event when user chooses to retry an API after payment resulted in an error. ABANDON_ORDER_AFTER_PAYMENT Event when user chooses to cancel the transaction after payment resulted in an error. FISCAL_LOGIN This event is to capture all user login. This event is raised only when OrderConfig &gt; enableFiscal is TRUE, this event is very specific to France tax governance under fiscal laws.&nbsp; FISCAL_LOGOUT This event is to capture all user logout. This event is raised only when OrderConfig &gt; enableFiscal is TRUE, this event is very specific to France tax governance under fiscal laws. FISCAL_PRINTER_UNAVAILABLE This event is to capture any printer failure, due to various reasons like, printer unavailability, paper, wrong config etc. This event is raised only when OrderConfig &gt; enableFiscal is TRUE, this event is very specific to France tax governance under fiscal laws. &nbsp; Note: Currently, there is no UI to view the list of critical events. You can use&nbsp;APIs&nbsp;to get the critical events that are stored in the database. APIs to get the list of critical events and logs pertaining to each event: API Description {{url}}/devicemanagement/api/devicemanagement/criticalEvent?query=(EventName = &#39;APP_CRASH&#39;)&amp;size=10&amp;page=0 &nbsp; The API can be used to get the critical event header details with multiple query parameters, like: EventName, EventDescription, RemoteId, LocationID, UserId, OSVersion, BaseAppVersion, CustomAppVersion, BaseBuildDate, CustomBuildDate or RegisterID {{url}}/devicemanagement/api/devicemanagement/criticalEventDetails?query=(CriticalEventId = &#39;001&#39;)&amp;size=10&amp;page=0 The API can be used to get the detailed log information for a particular critical event. parameters can be CriticalEventId generated from the previous API. &nbsp; The data stored in the backend entities will&nbsp;be purged periodically. The default age for purging the records&nbsp;for Critical Event and Critical Event Details&nbsp;are&nbsp;120 and 15&nbsp;days respectively.