# POS Simplified Device Registration Configuration

**Permalink:** device-registration-management-config
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Store/Process & Configuration Guides/Point of Sale/POS Classic Guides/POS Setup/Device Registration and Management/Configuration
**Content Length:** 56,611 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:03:05.972679

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Store››Process & Configuration Guides››Point of Sale››POS Classic Guides››POS Setup››Device Registration and Management ››POS Simplified Device Registration Configuration POS Simplified Device Registration Configuration Simplified Device Registration SettingPersistenceResourceIDsPOS StoreValidationsDevice ManagementRFID ReadersPeripheral CreationCash Drawer types and configuration detailsPrinter types and configuration detailsPayment Terminal types and configuration detailsExcel Import via API: Example RFID Reader Creation via APIExcel RFID Import via API:Peripheral MappingConfiguration Services, UIs and Entities This guide outlines the configurations that allow retailers to customize and control the simplified device registration process. Simple Device Management is used to allow retailers to configure devices for their locations without users being required to enter in device information such as IP address or Port. With SDM on, devices can be assigned a register number, as well as specific peripheral devices. These settings will be maintained based on the deviceID, and therefore, even if the application is removed and re-installed, the settings will not change or need to be re-entered. Validation also occurs to ensure only one device is assigned to a register number at a time. Note: When Simple Device Management is turned off, the user will be required to enter the IP address and port information for all peripheral devices. Additionally, there is no validation that occurs to ensure no two devices are assigned the same register number. Simplified Device Registration Setting There is one business flag relating to Device Management. This is the SimpleDeviceManagment (SDM) flag under POS Store Configuration. This Boolean flag is set to False by default. Clients can choose to enable this flag either across all locations, or for specific locations. Any data entered in the Store UI will override settings configured in the MAO Central Server. Users can manually configure device settings during device registration from the POS Setting page in the Store UI. When this flag is set to false, device registration actions will not be restricted by the SDM grants. The Store UI will not perform any validation of the user-entered data. The Store UI will leverage the preconfigured settings for peripheral devices during registration, including IP addresses, Port Numbers and Device Types. Alternatively, when the SimpleDeviceManagment flag is enabled, the Store UI will protect device registration actions with the SDM grants. These dropdowns are populated according to Assignment Rules, which either include or exclude specific peripheral devices. When SDM is enabled, the user can choose peripheral devices from a series of drop down menus on the POS Settings page. Persistence All the details specific to registration, such as the IP addresses of assigned peripherals, will be persisted in the database. This will allow the user to see all preconfigured details in the POS Settings tab, even after the app is killed and loaded again, or if the app crashes. This data can be removed by either the Unregister Device or Clear All options in POS Settings. Note: When "Delay Payment Terminal Session Until Time of Payment" is turned on, a Mobile register user can associate the payment terminal or change a previously associated terminal during the course of the transaction or even at the payment step. Any such newly selected payment terminal will overwrite any existing payment terminal association in POS Settings. ResourceIDs The following resourceIDs have been granted to the POSStoreManager role in initial seed data for device registration and settings access. To enable these functionalities for other Roles, grants for these resources should be added. Org UI Resource Configuration Purpose ui::devicemgmt::settings This is a UI action to check if a user has permission to assign a register number to a device. ui::devicemgmt::settings::save This is a UI action to show/hide the settings save button. ui::devicemgmt::unregister This is a UI action to show/hide the unregister button. ui::devicemgmt::clearall This is a UI action to show/hide the clear all button. ui::devicemgmt::pairpaymentterminalinheader This is a UI action to allow user to change the payment terminl within the tappable header when config is turned on. If user does not have this grant, the selected PT will be visible but not editable from outside POS Settings. Note: There is no manager override ability in the POS settings screen for device registration. No override resourceIDs or Manager Key functionality exists. POS Store During initial set-up, the user will be prompted to select a store. This store is now saved as the POSStore in local storage variable. If a user changes the store number after the POS Store has been set, all POS functions will be disabled. This is to prevent any POS transactions from being run under an incorrect store number. If a user changes the store number, the new store will be considered the "current store". If the user logs out, or if the application times out, the Current Store will remain as previously selected. The user will need to change the store back to match the POS Store in order to use any POS functions. Validations The Store app maintains a POSLicense in local storage. This value is initially set to null. On login with SDM enabled, the Store app will check for the POSLicense. If the POSLicense is null, the user is redirected to the POS Settings page for device registration. On register assignment, the POSLicense will be set and persisted until the user chooses the Unregister Device or Clear All options. With SDM enabled, a Register can be assigned to one device at most. Assignment will fail if the Register is already assigned to another device. Similarly, a peripheral can only be assigned to one device using SDM at a time for fixed terminals Mobile devices are not confined to a single cash drawer as these are connected on the fly during the payment process. Multiple mobile registers can be associated to a single payment terminal if "Delay Payment Terminal Session Until Time of Payment" is configured to be on via POS Store Config - Common Configs. The registers cannot all simultaneously engage the same payment terminal, but different mobile devices can engage the payment terminal in turn. This allows multiple mobile devices to share association to a payment terminal at a store, engaging it one at a time. Register and peripheral assignments can be removed by either the Unregister Device or Clear All options in POS Settings. When SDM is enabled, the user can choose available peripheral devices from a series of drop-down menus on the POS Settings page. These dropdowns are populated according to Assignment Rules, which either include or exclude specific peripheral devices. If any of the above is not true, the user will not be brought to the new device registration process. Device Management All devices can be set up by uploading a CSV file or through manual entry in the config UI. When setting up a new register or peripheral, data will be validated to ensure the required master data is available. Register: store ID; register number; register type; assignment order Cash Drawer: store ID; cash drawer name; cash drawer ID; IP address; port; cash drawer type Printer: store ID; printer name; printer type; printer ID; IP address; port Payment Terminal: store ID; device name; payment terminal type; primary and secondary port; time out RFID Reader: store ID; RFID Reader name; RFID Reader type; RFID Reader ID; IP address; port Note: When SDM is not enabled, users will be required to enter the IP and port of peripherals on the device itself. No validation will occur. RFID Readers RFID is currently only supported on Windows for the Nordic Sampos flatbed reader. NOTE Readers should NOT be assigned to iOS or Android devices.   This will ensure the RFID toggle is NOT displayed on  iOS or Android devices regardless of whether the RFID grant is awarded to the user. When setting up a new RFID reader, data will be validated to ensure the required master data is available. Peripheral Creation Registers and peripherals can be individually created manually in Omnifacade and through API request. Alternatively, configurations can be imported in bulk though API either in JSON format, or by uploading an Excel workbook. Example Register Creation via API { "Data": [ { "StoreID": "{{storeId1}}", "RegisterNumber": "{{regNum1}}", "AssignmentOrder": "{{assignOrder1}}", "RegisterType": { "RegisterTypeID": "{{regType1}}" } }, { "StoreID": "{{storeId2}}", "RegisterNumber": "{{regNum2}}", "AssignmentOrder": "{{assignOrder2}}", "RegisterType": { "RegisterTypeID": "{{regType2}}" } } ] } Cash Drawer types and configuration details Cash Drawer Supported Modes Config Details Comments APG/APGCashDrawer Direct IP IP: {YourCashDrawerIP} Port: 30998 In this mode the cash drawer is directly connected with IP, default port is 30998 APG403CashDrawer Serial Port IP: {YourPrinterIP} Port: 9100 In this mode the cash drawer is connected to printer via serial port, so we need to give printer IP and Port in the config (9100 is printer port). We recommend that CD 101A cable is used for this connection. Works in ESC/POS communication mode. Make sure the printer and the cash drawer are connected to same network connection OPOSCashDrawer (windows only) Serial Port/USB IP & Port does not matter, give dummy values This works in OPOS communication mode HPUSBOPOSDirect (windows only) Serial Port/USB IP & Port does not matter, give dummy values This works in OPOS communication mode Printer types and configuration details Printer Supported Modes Config Details Comments Epson (iOS & Android) Direct IP IP: {YourPrinterIP} Port: 9100 IP based communication EpsonTMT88VI (iOS & Android) Direct IP IP: {YourPrinterIP} Port: 9100 IP based communication OPOSPrinter (windows) Serial Port IP & Port does not matter. Feel free to give any dummy values This works in OPOS communication mode EsponH6000IV (Deprecated, not recommended)(windows) Serial Port IP & Port does not matter. Feel free to give any dummy values Uses older plugin, recommeneded to use OPOS printer Payment Terminal types and configuration details Terminal Supported Modes Config Details Comments MX/MX 915/925 Direct IP IP: {YourTerminalIP} Port: 5015/5016 Verifone e355 Direct IP IP: {YourTerminalIP} Port: 5015/5016 Adyen e385p Direct IP IP: {YourTerminalIP} Port: 8443/8443 Adyen 400 Direct IP IP: {YourTerminalIP} Port: 8443/8443 Excel Import via API: GET - {{url}}/devicemanagement/api/devicemanagement/register/excelTemplate Retrieve the base64 encoded data, and decode and save as in ".xlsx" format to use the Register Excel Template "Register.xlsx" > Register Timestamp Message StoreID RegisterNumber AssignmentOrder DeviceID DeviceType DeviceOS AssignmentDate AssignmentUser Status RegisterType {{storeId1}} {{regNum1}} {{assignOrder1}} {{regType1}} {{storeId2}} {{regNum2}} {{assignOrder2}} {{regType2}} POST - {{url}}/devicemanagement/api/devicemanagement/register/importExcel Body: {"mode":"formdata","formdata": [{"key":"workbook","type":"file","src":"%PATH_TO_FILE%/Register.xlsx"}]} Example RFID Reader Creation via API Individually: POST - {{url}}/devicemanagement/api/devicemanagement/rfidReader { "Actions": { "property1": "string", "property2": "string" }, "Address": "string", "ApplyAction": "string", "CreatedBy": "string", "CreatedTimestamp": "2015-10-28T10:15:30 (ISO Date Time Format)", "Extended": {}, "LocalizedTo": "string", "Messages": { "Message": [], "Size": 0 }, "PK": "string", "Port": 0, "ProfileId": "string", "RfidReaderID": "This field should be not-nullable, alphanumerics, hyphen and underscore are allowed", "RfidReaderName": "string", "StoreID": "string", "Type": { "PeripheralDevice": "string" }, "UpdatedBy": "string", "UpdatedTimestamp": "2015-10-28T10:15:30 (ISO Date Time Format)", "entityLabels": {}, "entityName": "string", "localize": true, "objectName": "string" } JSON Bulk Import: POST - {{url}}/devicemanagement/api/devicemanagement/rfidReader/bulkImport Excel RFID Import via API: GET - {{url}}/devicemanagement/api/devicemanagement/rfidReader/excelTemplate Retrieve the base64 encoded data, and decode and save as in ".xlsx" format to use the rfidReader Excel Template "rfidReader.xlsx" > rfidReader POST - {{url}}/devicemanagement/api/devicemanagement/rfidReader/importExcel Peripheral Mapping RegisterToPeripheral data will be used to filter the list of available peripherals for a device if no assignment rules exist. Seed data has been added to map a register device type to a specific type of peripheral. This data is system-augmentable. RegisterDeviceType PeripheralTypeID PeripheralDevice RP9 Printer HP IP Printer (original) RP9 Printer HPA799IP IP Printer RP9 Printer HPA799USB USB Printer RP9 Printer EpsonTMH6000IVUSBOPOS USB Printer with Check Reader RP9 Printer EpsonT88PrinterAdapter IP Printer iPad Printer Epson IP Printer (original) iPad Printer EpsonT88PrinterAdapter IP Printer iPhone Printer Epson IP Printer (original) iPhone Printer EpsonT88PrinterAdapter IP Printer RP9 CashDrawer HPUSBDirect USB Cash Drawer iPad CashDrawer APG IP Cash Drawer (original) iPad CashDrawer APGCashDrawer IP Cash Drawer iPad CashDrawer APG403CashDrawer IP Cash Drawer iPhone CashDrawer APG IP Cash Drawer (original) iPhone CashDrawer APGCashDrawer IP Cash Drawer iPhone CashDrawer APG403CashDrawer IP Cash Drawer RP9 PaymentTerminal Verifone MX 915/925 Verifone Payment Terminal iPad PaymentTerminal MX Verifone Payment Terminal (original) iPad PaymentTerminal Verifone MX 915/925 Verifone Payment Terminal iPad PaymentTerminal Verifone e355 Verifone Mobile Sled iPhone PaymentTerminal MX Verifone Payment Terminal (original) iPhone PaymentTerminal Verifone MX 915/925 Verifone Payment Terminal iPhone PaymentTerminal Verifone e355 Verifone Mobile Sled RP9 rfidReader NordicIP IP RFID Reader RP9 rfidReader NordicUSB USB RFID Reader iPad rfidReader N/A iPhone rfidReader N/A ET51 rfidReader N/A TC52 rfidReader N/A Configuration Services, UIs and Entities Some of the configuration services mentioned in this document and any configuration UIs that are available are listed in the table below, along with information to navigate to the API documentation. UI Component Group Service Endpoint Register Status Device Management RegisterStatus Services /api/devicemanagement/registerStatus Peripheral Type Device Management PeripheralType Services /api/devicemanagement/peripheralType Assignment Rules Device Management Assignment Rules Services /api/devicemanagement/assignmentRules Register To Peripheral Device Management RegisterToPeripheral Services /api/devicemanagement/registerToPeripheral