# POS Simplified Device Registration Process

**Permalink:** device-registration-management-process
**Content Length:** 11,814 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:35:44.481840

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Point of Sale&rsaquo;&rsaquo;POS Classic Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;POS Setup&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Device Registration and Management ››POS Simplified Device Registration Process POS Simplified Device Registration Process OverviewProcess flowWorkflow for initial POS application setup:Workflow for POS setup if the application has been previously installed:Unregister and Clear All:Services: Overview Device registration and management can be cumbersome for some retailers, especially if they have many devices per store or location. The simplified device registration process allows a retailer to take a more streamlined approach to setting up devices at a location. With Simple Device Management (SDM), retailers can create lists of peripherals for one, or multiple locations in advance. This will allow for an easier setup during the auto assign register process within the POS Settings screen and facilitate easier switching between peripheral devices if needed. SDM is the preferred flow as it provides&nbsp;ease of setup with multiple devices. Process flow Configuration and loading of registers and peripherals must occur prior to device registration. The backend setup for device management now allows a retailer to pre-configure registers for peripheral assignments prior to the device application being installed.&nbsp; Retailers can upload a CSV file with all the information, or they can create individual assignments on the config UI. The UI process for the simple device registration allows the user to set-up POS during the initial load of the application if they so choose. The user will have the ability to skip the process entirely, or they can skip after registering an assignment. The user can also skip individual peripheral assignments.&nbsp; If the user has the correct resourceID access, they will be able to go into settings and make any necessary updates later.&nbsp; Workflow for initial POS application setup: Upon launching the application for the first time, the user will be prompted to enter the server and auth URLs After a URL entry, the user will be directed&nbsp;to the login page. Once logged in, the store selection screen is displayed.&nbsp; The selected store will become the POS Store (also referred to as the &quot;Default Store&quot;) After store selection, the user will be directed&nbsp;to the simple POS device registration screen. The user will select the register type: fixed or mobile. Users can then choose to auto-assign a register or manually assign one. If the user chooses auto-assign, then after selecting Assign, the next number available in the assignment order will be auto-assigned based on the register type selected in the previous step. If the user chooses to manually assign a register number, then upon selecting. Assign, the number will be validated to ensure it is not currently in use by another device Note: Once the register number is assigned, the user cannot edit it.&nbsp; To change the register type or number, the user must unregister the device. Once the register is assigned, the peripheral selection is displayed. Peripheral selection is based on register type. Example: a mobile device does not require cash drawer selection Peripheral selections are not required and can be skipped at any time. Users can navigate back to POS settings to select peripherals or choose new peripherals.&nbsp; Note: If a user chooses to skip a payment terminal configuration or a cash drawer configuration, they will not have access to those payment options on the Order Summary screen until the settings are updated. Workflow for POS setup if the application has been previously installed: If the application has been previously installed, but POS setup did not occur, the user can navigate directly to settings &gt; POS tab The user will select the register type: fixed or mobile. Users can then choose to auto-assign a register or manually assign one. If the user chooses auto-assign, then after selecting Assign, the next number available in the assignment order will be auto-assigned based on the register type selected in the previous step. If the user chooses to manually assign a register number, then upon selecting Assign, the number will be validated to ensure it is not currently in use by another device Once the register is assigned, the peripheral selection is displayed. Peripheral selection is based on register type. Example: a mobile device does not require cash drawer selection Peripheral selections are not required and can be skipped at any time. Users can navigate back to POS settings to select peripherals or choose new peripherals.&nbsp; Note:&nbsp;The application will have an&nbsp;error popup prompt&nbsp;to complete POS setup, but it allows to navigate to the &lsquo;Cart Next Gen&rsquo; UI. Additionally, when the user attempts to add an item to the cart, it again displays another error message to complete the set up.&nbsp; Note: If a printer is not set up, the user can select a printer from the process receipt screen. The printer selected will be considered the default printer unless otherwise changed in the settings. Unregister and Clear All: Unregister: Once a device is registered, the user can&nbsp;remove POS settings by selecting Unregister. Upon confirmation, the POS settings on the device will be cleared, and the formerly assigned register number will now be in &quot;unassigned&quot; status. The user can now choose to set the device as a different register. Clear All: Similar to the Unregister option, the Clear All button unregisters the device and clears POS settings. Additionally, Clear All clears the POS store that has been previously set Upon selecting this option, the user will navigate to the store selection screen. The new store selected will become the new POS store, and the device can be registered as part of that location. Note: Once a device has been set up for POS, if a user changes the store number on the store selection screen, POS functions will be disabled until the current store matches the POS store. Services: The following APIs are the key APIs related to Simplified Device Registration.&nbsp;Refer to the API documentation for additional details on&nbsp;each service. Service Component Service Endpoint assignRegisterToDevice: (Mashup API) Device Management /api/storefacade/devicemanagement/register/assignRegisterToDevice Registration: Device Management /api/storefacade/devicemanagement/assignments Unregistration: Device Management /api/storefacade/devicemanagement/register/unAssignRegisterToDevice &nbsp;