# Digital Self-Service Configuration

**Permalink:** digital-self-service-configuration
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Order Management/UI Help/Digital Self-Service/Digital Self-Service Configuration
**Content Length:** 37,537 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:00:13.835736

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Order Management››UI Help››Digital Self-Service ››Digital Self-Service Configuration Digital Self-Service Configuration Self-Service Order TypeSelf-Service Selling ChannelSelf-Service Return Center IdSelf-Service Availability ViewSelf-Service Enable ExchangeEnable Return In StoreEnable Printerless ReturnPrinterless Returns Carrier OptionEnable Pay by Link for Self Service FeaturesEnable Multiple Return PackagesDigital Self Service Enable AVSCurbside Parking and Vehicle Information MandatoryWeb URL Linked from LogoCustom CSS URLExtend Pickup Expiry LimitSelf Service Return Shipping MethodSelf Service Exchange Shipping MethodShipping Method for BOPIS ConversionEnabling Shipping Restriction ValidationsSelf Service Payment Gateway IdManage Orders Returns URLChat Disclosure ContentHeader Menu Alignment OptionContact Customer Service ConfigurationHeader Menu ConfigurationProduct Recommendations in Self Service PagesOpt In Text Messages in Self Service PagesCustomer Survey Feedback on Self Service PagesDigital Self-Service UI ConfigEnabling Chat Feature in Self Service PagesEnable Uneven ExchangeEnable Version2 UI for Shipment and Return Tracking The Digital self-service configurations are required for any implementation which uses the Digital Self Service UIs. Self-Service Order Type This feature enables you to configure the order type for self-service. Refer to Creating and Updating Order for more details on order type. To configure the order type for self-service return orders, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Digital Self Service Configuration > Digital Self Service Configuration. Select the default configuration and select View. In the Details tab of the Edit Self Service Configuration page, select the required order type in the Self Service Order Type drop-down, and then click Save. Self-Service Selling Channel This feature enables you to configure the selling channel for self-service. Refer to Order Orchestration for more details on selling channel. To configure the selling channel for self-service return orders, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Digital Self Service Configuration > Digital Self Service Configuration. Select the default configuration and select View. In the Details tab of the Edit Self Service Configuration page, select the selling channels in the Self Service Selling Channel drop-down, and then click Save. Self-Service Return Center Id This feature enables you to configure the return center for self-service. Refer to the Call Center or Self-Service Returns section for more details. To configure the return location used for self-service return orders, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Digital Self Service Configuration > Digital Self Service Configuration. Select the default configuration and select View. In the Details tab of the Edit Self Service Configuration page, select the return location in the Self Service Return Center Id drop-down, and then click Save. Self-Service Availability View This feature enables you to select the availability view for self-service to check the inventory of items. Refer here for more details To configure the inventory availability view for self-service, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Digital Self Service Configuration > Digital Self Service Configuration. Select the default configuration and select View. In the Details tab of the Edit Self Service Configuration page, select the inventory availability view in the Digital Self Service Availability View drop-down, and then click Save. Self-Service Enable Exchange This feature enables you to have the exchange option enabled for self-service. Refer Enable Exchange for more details. To enable the exchange option for self-service, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Digital Self Service Configuration > Digital Self Service Configuration. Select the default configuration and select View. In the Details tab of the Edit Self Service Configuration page, select the Digital Self Service Enable Exchange check box, and then click Save. Enable Return In Store This feature enables customers to return items to the store. Refer to Store Returns for more details. To enable returns in store for self-service, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Digital Self Service Configuration > Digital Self Service Configuration. Select the default configuration and select View. In the Details tab of the Edit Self Service Configuration page, select the Enable Return In Store check box, and then click Save. Enable Printerless Return This feature enables the customers to return by providing a digital return code at the carrier location when the customers do not have access to a printer to print the shipping label. Refer to Printerless Returns for more details. To enable printerless returns for self-service, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Digital Self Service Configuration > Digital Self Service Configuration. Select the default configuration and select View. In the Details tab of the Edit Self Service Configuration page, select the Enable Printerless Returns check box, and then click Save. Printerless Returns Carrier Option This feature enables you to configure the carrier option for printerless return. Refer to Printerless Returns for more details. To configure printerless return carrier option for self-service, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Digital Self Service Configuration > Digital Self Service Configuration. Select the default configuration and select View. In the Details tab of the Edit Self Service Configuration page, select the printerless return carrier option as "FedEx", "FedEx- Label Only" or "UPS- Label Only" as required, and then click Save. Enable Pay by Link for Self Service Features This configuration provides customers with the ability to capture payment for return and exchange, which is disabled by default. Refer to Returns and Exchanges for more details. To enable pay by link for self-service, perform the following steps Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Digital Self Service Configuration > Digital Self Service Configuration. Select the default configuration and select View. In the Details tab of the Edit Self Service Configuration page, select the Enable Pay by Link for Self Service Features check box, and then click Save. Enable Multiple Return Packages This feature enables you to allow more than one return package and label per return order. Refer to Return Labels for more details. To enable multiple return packages for self-service, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Digital Self Service Configuration > Digital Self Service Configuration. Select the default configuration and select View. In the Details tab of the Edit Self Service Configuration page, select the Enable Multiple Return Packages check box, and then click Save. Digital Self Service Enable AVS This feature enables address verification when a customer enters the address. Refer here for more details. To enable address verification service for self-service, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Digital Self Service Configuration > Digital Self Service Configuration. Select the default configuration and select View. In the Details tab of the Edit Self Service Configuration page, select the Digital Self Service Enable AVS check box, and then click Save. Curbside Parking and Vehicle Information Mandatory This feature enables you to set the parking and vehicle information as mandatory for curbside pick up. Refer Curbside Pickup for more details. To configure the parking and vehicle information as mandatory, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Digital Self Service Configuration > Digital Self Service Configuration. Select the default configuration and select View. In the Details tab of the Edit Self Service Configuration page, select the Curbside Parking and Vehicle Information Mandatory check box, and then click Save. Web URL Linked from Logo Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Digital Self Service Configuration > Digital Self Service Configuration. Select the default configuration and select View. In the Details tab of the Edit Self Service Configuration page, enter the web URL attached to the logo in the Web URL Linked From Logo field, and then click Save. Custom CSS URL This feature enables you to customize the theme of the Digital Self-Service UI  by using the Cascading Style Sheet based on the Custom URL provided at the organization level. Once the URL is provided and saved, the DSS UI will be updated in real-time and a restart is not required.  Refer to UI Theming and Customization for more details. To provide the custom CSS URL for self-service, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Digital Self Service Configuration > Digital Self Service Configuration. Select the default configuration and select View. In the Details tab of the Edit Self Service Configuration page, enter the custom CSS URL, and then click Save. Note: Digital Self-Service does not support configuring distinct URLs for individual brands. Extend Pickup Expiry Limit This configuration enables you to set up the maximum number of days by which the customers can extend their pickup expiry date from the current pickup expiry date. Refer here for more details. To extend pickup expiry limit, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Digital Self Service Configuration > Digital Self Service Configuration. Select the default configuration and select View. In the Details tab of the Edit Self Service Configuration page, enter the maximum number of days by which the customer can extend the pickup expiry date in the Extend Pickup Expiry Limit field, and then click Save. Self Service Return Shipping Method To configure the return shipping method for self-service, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Digital Self Service Configuration > Digital Self Service Configuration. Select the default configuration and select View. In the Details tab of the Edit Self Service Configuration page, select the return shipping method in the Self Service Return Shipping Method drop-down. Self Service Exchange Shipping Method To configure the exchange shipping method for self-service, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Digital Self Service Configuration > Digital Self Service Configuration. Select the default configuration and select View. In the Details tab of the Edit Self Service Configuration page, select the exchange shipping method in the Self Service Exchange Shipping Method drop-down, and then click Save. Shipping Method for BOPIS Conversion To configure the shipping method for BOPIS conversion, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Digital Self Service Configuration > Digital Self Service Configuration. Select the default configuration and select View. In the Details tab of the Edit Self Service Configuration page, select the shipping method in the Shipping Method for BOPIS Conversion drop-down, and then click Save. Enabling Shipping Restriction Validations The shipping restrictions are the restrictions enforced by law agencies that retailers have to evaluate before shipping orders to their customers. To enable shipping restriction validation for self-service, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Digital Self Service Configuration > Digital Self Service Configuration. Select the default configuration and select View. In the Details tab of the Edit Self Service Configuration page, select the Enable Shipping Restriction Validations check box, and then click Save. Self Service Payment Gateway Id This feature enables DSS to integrate with the payment providers like Adyen, Cybersource, and so on by selecting the corresponding payment gateway. To configure the payment gateway for self-service, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Digital Self Service Configuration > Digital Self Service Configuration. Select the default configuration and select View. In the Details tab of the Edit Self Service Configuration page, select the payment gateway you want to integrate with DSS in the Self Service Payment Gateway ID drop-down, and then click Save. Manage Orders Returns URL This feature enables you to configure the URL to manage orders like create returns, track shipment, and so on. Refer here for more details. To configure manage orders return URL for self-service, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Digital Self Service Configuration > Digital Self Service Configuration. Select the default configuration and select View. In the Details tab of the Edit Self Service Configuration page, enter the Manage Orders Returns URL, and then click Save. Chat Disclosure Content This feature allows retailers to customize specific content to be displayed in the chat window, such as disclosure messages like chat conversation recording notifications. The content can include links to external pages with terms and conditions which may require some HTML coding. For example: <p>By continuing, you agree that this chat may be recorded. <a style='color:blue;' href="https://sabraham01.cp.manh.cloud/customerengagementfacade/app/agentInbox"target="blank">Privacy policy.</a></p> The text configured in the chat disclosure content will be displayed in both chatbot and live chat sessions, and the customer must click a button in the chat window to continue. However, this step is not enforced if no content or text is provided in the configuration. Header Menu Alignment Option This feature enables you to align header menu options. Refer here for more details on configuring header menu options. To configure the header menu alignment for self-service screens, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Digital Self Service Configuration > Digital Self Service Configuration. Select the default configuration and select View. In the Details tab of the Edit Self Service Configuration page, select the alignment option in the Header Menu Alignment Option drop-down, and then click Save. Contact Customer Service Configuration This feature enables you to add, view, and delete the desired contact options for each feature. To configure contact customer service configuration for self-service screens, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Digital Self Service Configuration > Digital Self Service Configuration. Select the default configuration and select View. In the Contact Us Config tab of the Edit Self Service Configuration page, you can view the existing contact configurations. To add a new configuration, click Add. In the Contact Us Config pop-up window, select the Page Id, Contact Option, enter the contact info, and the sequence in which the contact option should display, and then click Save. To delete the existing configuration, select the configuration you want to delete from the Contact Us Config tab and click Delete. Header Menu Configuration This feature enables you to add, view, and delete the header menu configurations. These configurations help the Digital Self Service UI to align more closely to the e-commerce experience by configuring a header menu to be displayed with the configured logo. Refer here for more details on configuring the alignment of the header menu. Refer to UI Theming and Customization for more details. To configure the header menu configuration for self-service screens, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Digital Self Service Configuration > Digital Self Service Configuration. Select the default configuration and select View. In the Header Menu Config tab of the Edit Self Service Configuration page, you can view the existing configurations. To add a new configuration, click Add. In the Header Menu Config pop-up window, enter the title, url, and the sequence in which the menu should display, and then click Save. To delete the existing configuration, select the configuration you want to delete from the Header Menu Config tab and click Delete. Product Recommendations in Self Service Pages This feature enables you to add product recommendations in Digital Self-Service pages. Refer here for more details. Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Digital Self Service Configuration > Digital Self Service Configuration. Select the default configuration and select View. In the Details tab of the Edit Self Service Configuration page, select the Enable Product Recommendations in Self Service Pages check box, and then click Save. Opt In Text Messages in Self Service Pages This feature allows customers to opt in to receive text messages about the order's updates. Currently, the Opt-In feature is available on Shipment Tracking and Return Tracking pages. Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Digital Self Service Configuration > Digital Self Service Configuration. Select the default configuration and select View. In the Details tab of the Edit Self Service Configuration page, select the Enable Opt In Text Messages in Self Service Pages check box, and then click Save. Customer Survey Feedback on Self Service Pages This feature allows customers to display a Customer Feedback Survey on the Digital Self Service module. Currently, the Customer Feedback Survey feature is available on Shipment Tracking and Return Tracking pages. Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Digital Self Service Configuration > Digital Self Service Configuration. Select the default configuration and select View. In the Details tab of the Edit Self Service Configuration page, select the Enable Customer Survey in Self Service Pages check box, and then click Save. Digital Self-Service UI Config The Digital Self-Service UI Configuration is required to configure custom panels. To configure custom panels, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Digital Self Service Configuration > Digital SelfService UI Config. On the Digital Self-Service UI Config, you can view and delete the existing configuration by selecting the configuration and clicking View and Delete respectively. To add a new configuration, click Add. In the Details tab of the Add UI Configuration page, select the Page Id for which you want to configure the custom panel and select the number of panels in the Layout Id. In the Block Configuration tab, click Add to add a new entry. In the Block Configuration pop-up window, select the Widget Type Id and Block Id, enter the URL, and then click Save. Enabling Chat Feature in Self Service Pages This feature allows Customer Engagement chat feature to be enabled on the Digital Self Service pages. Refer to Chat for more information. Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Digital Self Service Configuration > Digital Self Service Configuration. Select the default configuration and select View. In the Details tab of the Edit Self Service Configuration page, select the Enable Chat Feature in Self Service Pages check box, and then click Save. Enable Uneven Exchange This feature enables customers to enable uneven exchange on the Digital Self Service page. Customers can choose to exchange items for new items. Refer here for more information. Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Digital Self Service Configuration > Digital Self Service Configuration. Select the default configuration and select View. In the Details tab of the Edit Self Service Configuration page, select the Enable Uneven Exchange check box, and then click Save. Enable Version2 UI for Shipment and Return Tracking This feature allows you to enable version 2 of shipment and return tracking. Refer here for more details. To enable version 2 of shipment and return tracking, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Digital Self Service Configuration > Digital Self Service Configuration(MUP UI). Select the default configuration and click Edit. Select the Enable Version2 UI for Shipment and Return Tracking check box, and then click Save.