# Localization and Customizing Labels

**Permalink:** dss-localization-labels
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Order Management/Process & Configuration Guides/Digital Self-Service/Localization and Customizing Labels
**Content Length:** 37,423 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:55:44.040575

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Order Management››Process & Configuration Guides››Digital Self-Service ››Localization and Customizing Labels Localization and Customizing Labels Localization OverviewWhat Locales are SupportedHow Locale is SelectedLocalizing Carrier Responses (FedEx, UPS)Localizing Header Menu Option Monetary Amount FormattingHow to Change Labels & Error Message TextShipment Tracking LabelsReturns & Exchanges LabelsExtend Pickup Window LabelsCurbside Pickup LabelsOrganization Level UI LabelsGetting StartedLocales SupportedHow to Use Configuration Localization Overview Digital Self-Service uses the order locale to display text labels and error messages in the user's language. The order locale should be populated on the order during order capture, whether from e-commerce, contact center, or other channels. If only English is required, the text can also be customized for the EN-US locale and can be customized to fit within a brand's marketing strategy. A starter pack is available for multiple locales; work with services to find out which locales are supported. The following elements in the Digital Self-Service pages are localized: The text included in labels, page titles, field names, and error messages. In the Shipment Tracking page, third party carrier responses from FedEx and UPS are localized based on the customer's locale (details below) Dates and calendars (month/day names, date/time formatting including 12-hour vs. 24-hour clock, and so on) Store distances are displayed in miles vs. kilometers based on the locale's distance UOM configured in the organization component. Item attributes are displayed in the customer's locale, assuming they are saved on the order in the customer's locale (see here for details) The header menu options on the Digital Self-Service pages are displayed in the customer's locale, provided the localization data is already configured in the system. See here for details. The monetary amounts displayed on the pages, such as on item card, order summary, balance due, and so on. What Locales are Supported Please work with services for the latest list of supported locales. For most of the supported locales, a starter translation pack is provided. As part of the implementation, the language pack should be tested and validated for translations, spacing, and display on the UI in different form factors and with longer literals. Note: If a starter pack is not provided for a specific locale, the services team will need to do the necessary set-up to ensure translations for labels can be added and thus be used in UI display. Apart from other supported locales, the Digital Self-Service Returns/Exchanges feature also supports the Arabic language. The item information, return reasons, return cancelation reasons and header menu values are not in Arabic because it is not a Manhattan Active® Omni-supported language yet. How Locale is Selected For the shipment tracking, returns, and pick up later features, locale is retrieved from the order (orderLocale) and needs to be passed in from the order capture system. If locale is null on the order, then values are displayed using the default locale of EN-US. For curbside pickup, the locale is retrieved from the URL parameters. If the locale URL parameter is missing or null, then the EN-US locale is used. If an invalid locale is included in the URL (e.g. locale=ABC), then the label keys (CurbsidePickupTitleText) are displayed instead of localized values. Note that the string "null" is an invalid locale; if the locale on the order is null, then the URL should be formed without that parameter. Localizing Carrier Responses (FedEx, UPS) The majority of the time, FedEx and UPS use the same locale codes as Active® Omni. However, if these carriers (or another third party carrier) use a different locale code string than Active® Omni, the mapping needs to be configured. Since each carrier formats locales differently (e.g. the German locale is "de" in AO and FedEx, but "de_DE" in UPS), we need to determine which locale format each carrier uses. Then, when forming the carrier track requests, we translate our locale to the carrier's locale format using some utility. We determine what locale format the carrier uses by storing a new attribute 'carrierLocaleFormat' on the carrier entity in the Parcel component. To update the locale format, retailers can work with services to update the KV Store properties for the associated carrier: For UPS: CONFIG/COM-MANH-CP-UPS/UPS.CARRIERLOCALEMAPPING For FedEx Ship and FedEx SOAP Track (FedEx is expected to deprecate the SOAP Track Service in May 2024): CONFIG/COM-MANH-CP-FEDEX/FEDEX.CARRIERLOCALEMAPPING For FedEx REST Track: CONFIG/COM-MANH-CP-PARCEL/fedexRest.localeMapping Localizing Header Menu Option For the header menu option, localization is retrieved from the locale URL parameter. For example, if the locale parameter value is "fr", the menu option will display in French, and if the locale value is "es", the menu option will display in Spanish. If the locale URL parameter is missing or null, then values are displayed using the default locale of EN-US (English-US). The localized menu names for the supported locales can be configured using the following API: API: POST {{url}}/selfservice/api/selfservice/selfServiceConfig/save { "SelfServiceConfigId": "default", "HeaderMenuConfig": [ { "MenuItemSequence": 1, "MenuItemText": "Gifts for Christmas", "LocalizedData": [ { "LanguageKey": "en", "MenuItemText": "Gifts for Christmas" }, { "LanguageKey": "fr", "MenuItemText": "Cadeaux pour Noël" }, { "LanguageKey": "es", "MenuItemText": "Donacoj por Kristnasko" } ] } ] } Monetary Amount Formatting The monetary amounts shown across Digital Self-Service pages — i.e on the item card, order summary, and balance due — are formatted according to the order’s currency and locale. This determines various display conventions, such as whether to use a currency symbol (e.g., $) or a currency code (e.g., USD), and whether it appears before or after the amount, all based on the locale and currency attributes of the order. Note: This feature is controlled by Behavior Change, "OM - DSS: Amount formatting". The enable-by-date for this feature is 15th March 2025. Please refer to the behavior change document here for additional information on this process and to learn how to take advantage of this feature early for testing and training. How to Change Labels & Error Message Text The text labels and error messages in Digital Self-Service can be customized to fit your brand. All text displayed in the Digital Self-Service UI can be modified, including returns instructions, confirmation messages, button text, etc. These can be customized for the English locale (EN) as well as other supported locales. To customize labels and error messages, work with services to save updated values for the below labels. Below is a list of some labels and error messages which can be customized and localized for each feature. For a comprehensive list, ask services to pull the latest localization files from the consul server (e.g. for returns, use LOCALIZATION/COM-MANH-CP-SELFSERVICE/RETURN/EN). Shipment Tracking Labels Key Default Value Purpose trackShipment Track Shipment Header for Tracking Shipment trackingDetails Tracking Details trackingErrorStatus Tracking details are not yet available. Error message when details are not yet loaded/available. trackingErrorStatus2 Please check back soon. orderStatus Order Status deliveredOn Delivered On trackingNumber Tracking number: onItsWay On its way size Size: quantity Quantity color Color: Price Price: returnIdErrorMessage We’re unable to generate your return shipping label. Please contact our customer support for further help. Error message when returnId is not generated. pdfErrorMessage We’re unable to generate your return shipping label. Please contact our customer support for further help. Returns & Exchanges Labels Key Default Value Purpose returnItems Return items Create return header order Order: Label for order number returnInStore Return for free in store from from selectItems Select items below to return by mail next_UC NEXT Button to navigate to next screen returnItem Return this item returnDisabled This item can’t be returned Error message when item is not enabled for return sameExchange Exchange for same item exchangeDisabled This item can’t be exchanged Error message when item is not enabled for exchange selectReason Select reason Label for selecting reason for return/exchange size Size: quantity Quantity: color Color: price Price: returnableQuantity Returnable quantity: edit Edit selectSize Select size selectColor Select color notAvailableIn Not available in Error label when size/color combination not available for exchange selectAReason Select a reason enterQuantity Enter quantity to return save_UC SAVE Button for saving return quantity refundSummary Refund summary ReturnOrExchangeMore_UC RETURN/EXCHANGE MORE Button used to go back and edit your return or exchange returnCredit Return credit exchangeTotal Exchange total returnFees Return fees orderTotal Order total estimatedRefund Estimated refund refundNote Estimated refund: Actual will be calculated once the items are received. reason Reason: exchangeItems Exchange items Exchange header additionalPayment This exchange requires additional payment. Please contact customer service to proceed. Error message when additional payment is required to exchange to selected item confirm_UC CONFIRM button to confirm return/exchange returnSuccessful Your return has been successfully created! Message on successful return creation nextSteps Next steps print Print the prepaidLabel prepaidLabel packItems Pack items and apply label dropPackage Drop package at nearest carrier location. refundProcess Your refund will be processed once we receive the items. returnLabel_UC VIEW/PRINT RETURN LABEL button to open page to generate return label refundedTo will be refunded to shippingInformation Shipping information shipToAddress Ship to address shippingMethod Shipping method: notAvailable Not available Placeholder text when item image is missing returnIdNotFound We’re unable to generate your return shipping label. Please contact our customer support for further help. Error message when returnId is not found pdfNotGenerated We’re unable to retrieve your return shipping label. Please contact our customer support for further help. Error message when pdf could not be generated somethingWentWrong Something went wrong. Please reload the page and try again. General error message when page is not loaded invalidQuantity Please enter a valid quantity. Error when invalid item quantity selected only Only unitsEligible units are eligible for return. itemsNotPaid Items cannot be returned until the order is fully paid. Error message when creating return for order that is not fully paid Extend Pickup Window Labels Key Default Value Purpose selectPickupDate selectPickupDate selectButton_UC SELECT select button for calendar date picker selectNewPickup Select new pickup date Pick up by size Size: quantity Quantity: color Color: price Price: pickUpLater Pick up later order Order edit_UC EDIT from from confirm_UC CONFIRM confirm pickup date button holdItems We’ll hold your items until at At itemsAlreadyPicked It looks like you've already picked up the items in this order. If you need further assistance, please contact our customer service. Error when items already picked up itemsNotEligible No items are eligible for pickup at this time. Please check back later. Error when items are not eligible for pickup somethingWentWrong Something went wrong. Please reload the page and try again. General error message when page is not loaded orderNotPaid Items cannot be returned until the order is fully paid. Error when pickuplater is loaded for unpaid order noStores There are no stores within ofYourLocationIn of your location in Curbside Pickup Labels Key Default Value Purpose yourOrderIsReadyForPickUpPageTitle_SC Your order is ready for pickup! Page title iAmAtTheStoreButtonText_UC I'M AT THE STORE Button customer clicks when they've arrived at the store successfulResponse_SC We’re on it! Please wait in your vehicle and we will bring your items. orderNumber Order ItemSize Size ItemQuantity Quantity ItemClor Color ItemPrice Price PageCannotBeLoadedErrorText_SC Something went wrong. Please reload the page and try again. Error displayed when the page cannot load (invalid data, etc.) moreItems more items Displayed when more than 10 items are ready for pickup. The UI shows only 10 items, and shows "+X more items", where X is the number of items greater than 10. For instance, if 12 items are ready for pickup, then below the last item the UI shows "+2 items". errorResponse_SC Something went wrong! Please contact us and we can help. Error displayed when the customer clicks the 'I'm at the store' button and an error occurs. pickupInstructionsSectionTitle_TC Pickup Instructions PickupInstructionStep1 Describe your vehicle and where you are parked: PickupInstructionStep2 Press "I'm at the store" button below. PickupInstructionStep3 Stay in your vehicle! We will deliver your order to your trunk. maxCharactersLimit Max length 50 The system restricts the # characters in the text box to 50; this text is displayed below the box to indicate how many characters can be entered. pickedUpItemsSectionTitle_TC Items Already Picked Up Title of items section displayed if all items are already picked up yourOrderIsAlreadyPickedUpPageTitle_SC Your order has been picked up! Page title displayed if all items are already picked up Organization Level UI Labels Digital Self-Service UI labels can now be configured by organization, providing flexibility to display different instructions or branded messaging by brand or region. This will enable retailers to capture organizational nuances in label values, even if two organizations use the same locale. Getting Started To start using the UI labels at organization level, the following configuration should be completed. Navigate to 'Provisioning Profiles' by entering the same text in the search input in the menu option in Omnifacade. Choose an organization and click on the 'SYNC' button ; this step will: Copy all the UI labels for all existing Self Service features to the organization database, where they will start to appear on this page. The values displayed on this configuration page are for language "en". The provisioning profile - 'sel::uiLabels' will now be available in the 'Provisioning Profile Detail' section of the chosen organization. Locales Supported As mentioned here - by default, the "en" locale is supported after sync of the provisioning profile. Thereafter, to support more locales, use the steps below for each label that needs to be localized. The localized label values for the UI Labels in different languages can be configured using the following API : POST {{url}}/selfservice/api/selfservice/uiLabels/save { "ProfileId": "globalorg-us", "Feature": "tracking", "LabelKey": "shipmentTracking", "LabelValue": "Shipment Tracking", "LocalizedData": [ { "LanguageKey": "fr", "LabelValue": "suivi des expéditions" }, { "LanguageKey": "es", "LabelValue": "seguimiento de envíos" } ] } The localized label values for the UI Labels in different languages can be viewed using the following API : GET {{url}}/selfservice/api/selfservice/uiLabels?size=1000 How to Use Enable the configuration 'Use Organization level UI Labels in Self Service Pages' in the Self Service Configuration; details of the configuration can be found here. The label values will now be picked up from the database. To view the values, navigate to the Masterfacade UI, by entering 'Digital Self Service UI Labels Configuration' in the search input. All labels for "en" will be listed on this page and can be modified. The same page can be accessed via MUP UI using the same search string. Note: To view and edit the label values for languages other than "en", use the APIs mentioned here Note: MUP UI can be used only to view label values ; to update the values use Masterfacade UI or APIs mentioned here Configuration The following configuration is required for localization of UI labels. 'Use Organization level UI Labels in Self Service Pages' Configuration This is an optional configuration. If this configuration is enabled, the values for UI labels on DSS pages are retrieved from the database, otherwise, by default, the values are retrieved as explained here. Digital Self Service UI Labels Configuration This configuration page lists all UI labels for "en" language for all existing Self Service features. The label values can also be edited via this UI. This configuration can also be accessed via MUP UI, which has a search feature for easier access.