# Encode RFID Tags

**Permalink:** encode-rfid-tags
**Content Length:** 14,611 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:36:37.526270

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Common&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store RFID ››Encode RFID Tags Encode RFID Tags OverviewProcessLocked TagsUpdatesDefault SublocationConfigurationGTIN (Global Trade Item Number)GS1 Company Prefix LengthSample Item ConfigurationPassword for Locked RFID TagsUI PermissionsTroubleshootingServices Overview For situations where&nbsp;an item that is RFID-tracked arrives at a store untagged or the tag becomes lost or damaged, the &ldquo;Encode RFID Tags&rdquo; functionality can be used to encode and apply a new&nbsp;RFID tag&nbsp;to such units. Note: In order to perform encoding, the store must have a roll&nbsp;of &quot;blind&quot; RFID tags which can be encoded. A barcoded serial number must be&nbsp;printed on each tag which will be used&nbsp;during the encoding process to create a unique item level tag.&nbsp;Retailers should ensure that the range of serial numbers which are used for new tags do not overlap with serial numbers from item-level tags provided by vendors. Manhattan Active Omni validates that the GTIN + serial number combination does not already exist in the Unit Inventory table and will display an error message to the user in this case. Note: The functionality requires that a RFID handheld reader with write capability is paired. This functionality is not supported on browsers. To know more on the&nbsp; encode RFID tags activity during offline mode, please refer to the&nbsp;Store Offline Support&nbsp;page. Refer to the Store RFID guide for additional information about RFID support in stores. Process Once the user enters the &ldquo;Encode RFID Tags&rdquo; menu, they are first prompted to scan the barcode of the item which requires retagging. This barcode can be scanned from the hangtag of the unit whose RFID tag is damaged or any other unit of the same item available in the store. Once the item barcode is scanned, item details are displayed. Next, the user is prompted to scan the serial number from&nbsp;the new RFID tag which will be&nbsp;encoded.&nbsp;Once the serial number scan is validated and accepted, the Store app builds the EPC ID to&nbsp;encode&nbsp;into the new tag: GTIN - Obtained from item barcode scan. See Configuration section. Serial number - Scanned by store associate GS1 company prefix - Obtained from item barcode scan. See Configuration section. Tag size - Passed as 96 bits Filter value - Passed as &quot;1&quot; (POS item) The final step is that the&nbsp;user brings the tag close to the reader and presses the WRITE TAG button. The device emits two beeps - the first signifies that it has identified the tag to write to and the second signifies that the encoding is complete. The&nbsp;range of the RFID device is defaulted and restricted to &ldquo;Short&rdquo; to ensure that the encoding is performed on the&nbsp;intended tag and is not mistakenly performed on an unintended/nearby&nbsp;tag. A toast notification displays on the screen to notify the user that the encoding was successful. If the encoding could not be completed, an error message is displayed. Possible reasons include that a tag was not found within the reader&#39;s range or the password for a locked tag was not correct. Once the tag is encoded, the user can repeat the process if they have another tag to encode. Refer to the Encode RFID Tags&nbsp;UI help guide&nbsp;for additional information. Locked Tags If a retailer uses password protected tags for encoding, an unlock password is needed in order to write to them.&nbsp;A static password can be configured and passed as part of the encoding process. If the encoding doesn&#39;t succeed&nbsp;using the configured password, a fallback attempt is made by assuming that the tag is unlocked. Both these attempts are made for 5 seconds each and if they fail, an error is displayed&nbsp;on the UI. Refer to the&nbsp;Configuration section for more details. Note: The Store app supports passing a configured password during the encoding process. It does not allow the store associate to enter a password from the Store UI, an unlocked tag to be locked, or the password on a locked tag to be changed. Updates When the tag is encoded successfully, a record is inserted into the Unit Inventory table with the new EPC ID, status as &ldquo;Available&rdquo;, Event as &ldquo;EncodeTag&rdquo;, and Sub-Event as &ldquo;Encode&rdquo;. Note that&nbsp;no inventory supply updates are sent during the tag encoding process. The new tag will be updated to supply when it is read during the next store process or store count. Any&nbsp;tags that have gone missing will be&nbsp;marked as Missing during the next Store Count (if they haven&#39;t already been.) Note:&nbsp;While it is up to the retailer to come up with their own blind RFID tag design to use for this encoding function, it is important to remember that pre-printed blind tags do not contain a printed barcode that represents the item or serial number. For store operations that occur on a unit that has been retagged, the tag must be read with a handheld reader. There will be no EPC or SGTIN barcode that can be scanned by the associate. Default Sublocation If the retailer has configured sublocations, the user will be able to see a dropdown with a list of available&nbsp;sublocations when encoding a tag. The user must choose a sublocation during the encoding process.&nbsp; Configuration The following item-level configuration is necessary for all RFID tracked items: GTIN (Global Trade Item Number) As with other RFID functions, in order to encode a RFID tag the GTIN-14 value must be defined for the item ID.&nbsp;The GTIN-14 can be defined&nbsp;in either the Item Code or Manufacturing Attribute entity.&nbsp; GS1 Company Prefix Length In order to encode a tag, the&nbsp;GS1 Company Prefix Length must be defined for the Item ID. The length can be defined&nbsp;in either the Item Code or Manufacturing Attribute entity. GS1 guidelines allow for prefix lengths to range from&nbsp;6 to 12 digits. Sample Item Configuration Item ID = ABCDEF123 UPC-12 (Universal Product Code) = 012345678905.&nbsp;This would be defined in the Item Code entity for Item ID ABCDEF123 with item code = Primary UPC. GTIN-14 = 00012345678905 (UPC-12 prefixed with 2 zeros to make it 14 digits). This would be defined as an&nbsp;Item Code entity for Item ID ABCDEF123. The item&nbsp;code can be set to&nbsp;&quot;GTIN&quot; or any other value. GS1 Company Prefix Length = 6. This would be defined in the GS1 Company Prefix Length attribute of the item&#39;s GTIN-14 record (see above.) Password for Locked RFID Tags The tag unlock password is configured in the Store RFID Configuration and its default value is blank/null. If a password is&nbsp;configured, the value is passed during the encoding process. Use a null value if the blind tags are not protected by a password.&nbsp; Configuration Name: Password to be used for encoding of protected RFID tags Note: Passwords must be 8 digits in length and specified in hexadecimal format.&nbsp; UI Permissions Refer to the Store Common UI Resources page for the menu and action UI permissions. Troubleshooting Issue Troubleshooting Tip Unable to see the Encode RFID Tags functionality Ensure that the user has the required menu item permission assigned WRITE TAG button is disabled Ensure that the Item barcode and serial number have been scanned. If the button continues to remain disabled even after providing valid item barcode and serial number, validate that the reader is connected to the handheld device and try again. Item not found Confirm that the item barcode that was scanned is configured in the Item master. GTIN-14 code not configured for item Ensure that a GTIN-14 value is configured for the Item in the Item master. Invalid GS1 company prefix length for item Confirm that a valid GS1 Company Prefix Length Configuration is configured (along with the GTIN configuration) for the Item in the Item master. Invalid serial number A valid serial number: 1) Needs to be numeric 2) Cannot start with zero (other than just &ldquo;0&rdquo; which is a valid serial number) 3) Can only be up to 12 digits in length. Ensure that these guidelines are being adhered to while scanning the serial number. Tag already exists with this EPC ID Confirm that a unique serial number is scanned. Item GTIN, RFID tag serial number, along with a few other parameters, are used to determine the EPC ID to be encoded to the tag. Same set of inputs will result in a duplicate EPC ID which is not allowed to be persisted in the database. No RFID device connected Connectivity with the RFID device may have been lost during the write operation. Ensure that an RFID device, with write capability, is connected to the Store device, and then try again. Unable to encode locked RFID tag Validate that the configured tag password matches the password on the tag that the associate is attempting to encode. RFID tag not detected within range During the course of the encoding process, a tag could not be detected within the range of the RFID reader. Retry after moving the tag closer to the RFID device. Unable to encode RFID tag. Reach out to your IT team to refer to Kibana for details on how to solve the exact issue being encountered. Services The following APIs have been developed as part of this functionality. Service Component Group Service Endpoint Get Item Info for Encoding Store RFID Epc ReTag Controller /storefacade/api/storefacade/storerfid/retag/getItemInfoForRetag Encode Item Store RFID Epc ReTag Controller /storefacade/api/storefacade/storerfid/retag/retagItem &nbsp;