# Exchange Tender Process

**Permalink:** exchangetender-process
**Content Length:** 14,490 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:35:43.719123

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Point of Sale&rsaquo;&rsaquo;POS Classic Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;POS Order Selling&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Special Transactions&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Exchange Tender ››Exchange Tender Process Exchange Tender Process &nbsp;Exchange Tender TransactionWorkflow diagramVoid before Charging fundsAssociating a customerCharging&nbsp;the tender to be&nbsp;exchangedPayback processAlternate Flow: Gift card Cash outReceipt and ReprintServices Exchange tender in Active Store solution offers the retailers to&nbsp;accept a&nbsp;tender&nbsp;and refund the customer with another&nbsp;tender. Both the tenders i.e. the tender exchanged and the list of available refunded tender&nbsp;are configurable. The exchange refunded will be the same amount the tender is worth or the customer is charged on the tender to be exchanged.&nbsp;Exchange tender cannot be done partially and is always done for the full amount&nbsp;available on the tender to be exchanged. Exchange Tender Transaction Exchange tender is a separate transaction by itself and cannot be combined with any existing sale/return/gift card/backoffice transactions. This feature is controlled by a specific UI grant,&nbsp; &quot;ui::posservice::exchangetender&quot;.&nbsp; Users with grant can perform this transaction else the menu option is not available. Every&nbsp;such transaction allows multiples of a single tender type to be&nbsp; exchanged. A typical&nbsp;exchange tender flow is mentioned below : Generates a unique exchange tender transaction ID when Exchange Tender option is selected. Select the type of tender to be exchanged. (This is dependent&nbsp;on the configuration. Only applicable tenders are allowed to be exchanged). Accept the tenders to be exchanged and get the balance available on this tender&nbsp;from either 3rd party or from payware or based on the user input configurations. The maximum amount&nbsp;allowed to be exchanged is based on configuration. Any amount above this is not allowed. Charge/settle the full funds from the tender to be exchanged. (Partial processing of funds is not supported.) Get the list of eligible refund tenders.&nbsp; This is the list of tender types to which the amounts are refunded. Select the refund tender and enter the amount to be refunded and process the refund. Refunds can be split across different tender types. If any of the tender types are required to be placed in/out of&nbsp; cash drawer , then the cash drawer opens when the refund balance=0. Exchange tender does not support the below features: A completed Exchange tender transaction&nbsp; cannot be post voided. Exchange tender transaction is not eligible to be returned. Exchange tender transactions cannot be suspended. Tenders with no balance are not eligible for exchange and are not accepted on UI as a valid tender. Different types of tenders cannot be exchanged under the same exchange tender transaction. Partial amount exchange&nbsp;of any tender is not supported.&nbsp; &nbsp; Workflow diagram &nbsp; Void before Charging funds If a transaction ID was generated erroneously or&nbsp; by accident, then the&nbsp;exchange tender transaction can&nbsp;be voided.&nbsp; If a tender is added to a transaction and the customers wants it removed, this can be selected and voided from the transaction&nbsp;before charging funds from the tenders. Associating a customer Exchange tender transactions can be linked to a customer. After generating the exchange tender transaction ID, associates can use &quot;Tap to Apply&quot; option on the header and search for a customer and activate to link the customer to this transaction. Once any customer is linked, it cannot be modified further to change to another customer. Charging&nbsp;the tender to be&nbsp;exchanged When all the tenders to be exchanged are added to the exchange tender screen, users can click on Proceed. On clicking proceed, each tender is picked one at a time&nbsp; in the order in which they were added for the purpose of charging.&nbsp; The removal of refunds is the amount available on the tenders and this will create a settlement record for every tender added to the payment component. Error handling: If the only tender which is to be exchanged&nbsp;fails and the retailer is not able to remove funds, then the app will error out and associates cannot proceed. Either the tender/transaction has to be retried or voided.&nbsp;Else, if some of the tender, not all&nbsp;which is&nbsp;to be&nbsp;exchanged, fails and there is still some positive amount that was removed from the tender and needs to be refunded, then associates will be allowed to proceed to the summary screen to allow the refund. Payback process Based on the configuration, only selected tenders are eligible as refund tenders. And each tender has a maximum&nbsp;amount. Any amount above maximum is not allowed to be refunded for a selected refund tender. The user can choose to split the refund across multiple tenders again based on the configuration. Handling cash drawer and till updates: If any refund tender requires engaging a&nbsp;cash drawer (config, popCashDrawer=TRUE, then the cash drawer is opened and funds are removed from the cash drawer and closed. Till is also updated in the back office for the specific amount drawn from the till. If the tender which was to be exchanged&nbsp;requires&nbsp;engaging a cash drawer, then the cash drawer is opened and funds&nbsp;are inserted into the cash drawer and closed.&nbsp;Till is also updated in the back office for the specific amount inserted into the till. If the tender which was to be exchanged does not require&nbsp;engaging a cash drawer but requires only till updates (i.e includeDrawerCount = TRUE), then the cash drawer is not engaged but funds&nbsp;are&nbsp;inserted&nbsp;into the cash drawer. Only till updates are performed&nbsp;in&nbsp;the back office for the specific amount&nbsp;inserted&nbsp;into&nbsp;the till. Alternate Flow: Gift card Cash out When a gift card is used to tender a transaction and its remaining balance goes very low, the retailer can provide the ability to cash this out.&nbsp; As&nbsp;result of this, the customer does not have to carry a gift card with a low balance on it.&nbsp; This also reduces the number of active gift cards the retailer has to maintain.&nbsp; In case there is any balance to be satisfied, the system tries to apply the remaining gift card amount towards this and the rest gets cashed out.&nbsp; The balance amount which is eligible for cash out is configurable under payCaptureConfig.CashOutThreshold.&nbsp; The tender type in which the remaining balance is redeemed is configured under&nbsp;payCaptureConfig&gt;&gt;ChangePaymentType Once tendered, the system validates the remaining balance with the threshold defined.&nbsp; If the eligible balance has been reached, it prompts the option to cash out.&nbsp; If the customer chooses to, the balance amount is settled and gets utilized towards the remaining balance to be satisfied or cash out.&nbsp; Example: The threshold limit is set to 5.00.&nbsp; The customer uses a Gift card with a 100.00 balance,&nbsp;pays 98.00, Order balance due=98.00.&nbsp; With this, the balance remaining is 2 which is eligible for cash out.&nbsp; If a customer chooses the cash out option, 2.00 cash is handed over.&nbsp;&nbsp; Receipt and Reprint Once all the amount is refunded and the balance to be refunded = 0, then the application moves to the receipt screen. Users can choose to print or email the exchange tender transaction.&nbsp;Instead of sending email,&nbsp;an outbound message can be configured to be published externally that could be used for sending custom emails to the customer. The published outbound will contain order details along with payment and customer information. The receipt contains a list of tenders from where the funds are transferred to&nbsp;&nbsp;with the amount details and the list of tender&nbsp; to which the funds are transferred along the amount details. Note: Reprinting of an exchange tender transaction is supported using the reprint of the last transaction or from the customer purchase history screen. &nbsp; Services The following&nbsp;are the APIs related to Exchange Tender&nbsp;functions.&nbsp;Refer to the API documentation for additional details on&nbsp;each service. API Component Group Service Endpoint Exchange Tender Transaction posservice Order Service POST /api/posservice/order/addAttributeToOrder Transaction void posService POS Service POST /api/posservice/override/command/transVoid Balance Enquiry posservice Payment Transaction&nbsp;Service POST /api/posservice/payment/addGiftItemBalance Add Tender posservice Payment Header Service POST /api/posservice/payment/addTender Update Ready for Tender posservice Payment Service POST /api/posservice/order/updateReadyForTender Add Refund Tender posservice Payment Header Service POST /api/posservice/order/addRefundTender Search Customer Search Search Service GET /api/search/customer Activate Customer Search Search Service GET /api/search/customer/customerId