# Extend Pickup Window

**Permalink:** extend-pickup-window
**Content Length:** 9,865 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:33:43.075031

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Digital Self-Service ››Extend Pickup Window Digital Self-Service Extend Pickup Window OverviewUsing Digital Self-Service &amp; Store Fulfillment with Cross-Org VisibilityHow Organization Switching works in Digital Self-ServiceRequired Configuration for Cross-Org Fulfillment in DSSConfigurationHow to Test Overview This feature enables a customer to extend the time period in which they can pick up their items in a store. When a customer places an order to pick up in store, they receive an email when the items are ready for pickup. The customer is expected to come pick up the items at the store, otherwise the item will be put back on the shelf and available to other customers. If the customer cannot make it to the store to pick up their items in the original time period, then they can click the &#39;Pick up later&#39; button in the email,&nbsp;extend the pick up window, and pick up the items up at a later date. The pickup expiry date is stored on the fulfillment entity. This date is used in the store application to determine when to return items to the shelf and short the corresponding orders, because the customer was a no-show. In the Extend Pickup Window feature in Digital Self-Service (DSS), a customer is permitted to update the pickup expiry date to a future date, so that the item is reserved for a longer period of time. The DSS Extend Pickup Window feature is supported only with Manhattan&#39;s Store Fulfillment application. Configuration limits the number of days for which a customer can extend their pickup window. &nbsp; Using Digital Self-Service &amp; Store Fulfillment with Cross-Org Visibility If cross-organization fulfillment is enabled (see more details here:&nbsp;Cross-Organization Fulfillment Guide), then the order organization can differ from the fulfillment organization. This section describes how DSS supports cross-org fulfillment. How Organization Switching works in Digital Self-Service Digital Self-Service has the following logic to support cross-organization fulfillment, wherein the order organization differs from the fulfillment organization: Take location from DSS URL Get/Search location from organization component (the location can always be retrieved regardless of in which org it exists, because location entity is not profile-based) Get parentOrg of the location, set context with parentOrg Call Fulfillment with parentOrg in the context For example, if the following organization structure is in place: Europe Organization Store A France Organization Store B Parent Org = Europe Italy Organization Store C Parent Org = Europe When&nbsp;an&nbsp;order is placed by a French customer, the order has organizationId = France. The order allocates to the Italy store C, so the fulfillment is released to store C with organization = Italy. The DSS URL will include orgId = France (from the order); hence&nbsp;DSS will check for the configured&nbsp;user for the France org. This configured user needs to have access to the Europe and Italy orgs so that DSS can retrieve fulfillments from those orgs. Required Configuration for Cross-Org Fulfillment in DSS If cross-organization fulfillment is enabled, then the following needs to be taken care of&nbsp;for DSS to be able to access and update fulfillments across different organizations. Cross-organization fulfillment must be enabled&nbsp;for all organizations which require cross-org access LocationId values must be unique across all organizations The configured&nbsp;DSS user has access to all organizations within entire org structure. For example, if the&nbsp;user in the below org structure is admin@france-org.com, then this user needs to be granted access to the Europe-org and Italy-org in the Organization Users configuration (Users &gt; Organization Users in the application). Configuration The following configuration is required for the extend pick up window feature: Configure the maximum number of days customers can extend their pickup window in the Digital Self-Service Configuration UI &gt; Extend Pickup Expiry Limit. This configuration limits the number of days that a user can extend the pickup expiry date, from the current pickup expiry date. Currently, the original pickup expiry date is not stored and thus is not used for this calculation. Configure your organization&nbsp;and user to be used for authentication - see the Authentication Guide for details. This only needs to be done once per organization, so no action is required if it&#39;s already been done. Add the &#39;Pick up Later&#39; link to your existing email/text messaging and&nbsp;e-commerce site.&nbsp;To configure outbound messages for generating emails or text messages, see the Transactional Emails and Transactional Texts guides. Prerequisite: Release - fulfillment integration is working. There no&nbsp;configuration for this specific to self-service, but ensure that fulfillments are created in the fulfillment component&nbsp;when orders are released to store. How to Test After completing all required configuration: Place an&nbsp;order with delivery method PickUpAtStore or ShipToStore, which gets allocated and released to a store. Ensure the integration between the order component and fulfillment component is working correctly, by checking if the fulfillment is created for the corresponding release. In the store application, pick the items. If using email or text to access DSS, then you should receive an email/text indicating&nbsp;&#39;Your order is ready for pick up!&#39; Open the email and select the &#39;Pick up later&#39; button. If your email/text is not yet configured, then you can directly form the DSS URL by adding the URL attributes defined in the authentication guide (details here). Use a web browser or phone simulator (such as xCode) to launch this URL in your Safari browser.