# Extend Pickup Window

**Permalink:** extendpickupwindow
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Order Management/Process & Configuration Guides/Order Processing/Order Fulfillment/Late Order Modifications/Extend Pickup Window
**Content Length:** 49,730 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:57:49.351681

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Order Management››Process & Configuration Guides››Order Processing››Order Fulfillment››Late Order Modifications ››Extend Pickup Window Extend Pickup Window OverviewEligibility for PickUp Window ExtensionExtend Pickup Window in Digital Self-ServiceProcessing of PickUp Expiry Date RequestsConfigurationOrder ConfigurationImplementation FlavorsFeature ScopeUIs and EntitiesTroubleshootingWhy is an update request consisting of released order lines not eligible for pickup expiry date update?Why is the pickup expiry date of the released order line not updated after requesting for update?Why is an exception thrown when pickup expiry date update is requested? Overview With Manhattan Active® Omni extend pickup window, customers can modify the pick up expiry date on Pick Up or Ship To Store items which have already been released to the store. For example, a customer places a Pick Up At Store order and the store has already staged them for picking. If the customer wishes to modify the pick up window date, the customer can update the date on these items using Digital Self-Service (DSS) in conjunction with Store Inventory & Fulfillment (SIF). Currently, extend pickup window is the only late order modification use case supported for Pick Up or Ship to Store items. Pick Up expiry date can be modified until the order line / quantity is fulfilled. Here's how it works: A customer places a Pick Up At Store or Ship To Store order. The customer receives Ready For PickUp email with a link to "Pickup Later". The items are released to a store for processing. The store may have started picking or picked the items. The customer opens the Ready For PickUp email, clicks the link, and selects the item for a new PickUp date in Digital Self-Service or via E-Commerce, which is leveraging Manhattan Active® Omni APIs. The customer is notified with an immediate response from the fulfillment application. This guide gives an overview of the extend pickup window update flow in Manhattan Active® Omni's Order Management, Digital Self-Service, and Store Inventory & Fulfillment applications. Manhattan's Order Management application currently integrates only with Manhattan Active Omni's Store Inventory & Fulfillment. In some instances, third party stores can be used as fulfillment systems. Currently, extend pickup window requests are not supported with these applications. Eligibility for PickUp Window Extension Refer to the below section for details on the criteria that have to be met for extending the pickup window on Pick Up At Home or Ship To Store lines. This section describes the criteria that items must meet to be eligible for a PickUp expiry date update on a released line. All the order lines in a particular release must meet all the criteria. If even one criterion is not met by any order lines in the release, none of the items in the release can be updated. Validation Configuration Comments If at least one quantity of an order line is not "Fulfilled" yet Modification Rule >> Order Line >> Update PickupExpiryDate>> Restrict From Status >> Fulfilled If the order line qty is in fulfilled status then the order line is not eligible for update request. Line 1: 2 qty, 1 qty is fulfilled and 1 qty is released. Line 2: 2 qty, 2 qty is fulfilled. Extend pickup window is only supported if the order line is released to Active Store. Location > Location Sub type = Store and Manhattan Active Location = True. If the order line is allocated to any other location other than Manhattan Active Omni Store, the update will be restricted. OL1 - Allocation Id A1 - Release 1 - Store Atlanta OL2 - Allocation Id A2 - Release 2 - Store Boston. Update is restricted on this line since "Store Boston" is a non Manhattan Active Location. Even if the order line is eligible for update based on order modification rule, extend pickup window is restricted if an order line is split across multiple releases (same location or different locations) NA If the order line quantity is split across same or multiple location resulting in multiple releases. Line 1: 2 qty, 1 qty is released to Store Atlanta and 1 qty is released to Atlanta DC. Line 2: 2 qty, 1 qty is released to Store Atlanta at time T0 and 1 more qty is released to Store Atlanta at time T1. Even if the order line is eligible for update based on order modification rule, extend pickup window is restricted if an order line is not Picked yet NA Line 1: Release 1 - Release Line 1 - Released Line 2: Release 2 - Release Line 1 - Released All the order lines of a release must be part of the update request, changing only few order lines in the release or partial quantities of a line is not permitted. NA Including order lines belonging to a single release is mandatory. Line 1: Release 1 - Release Line 1 - Picked Line 2: Release 1 - Release Line 2 - Picked Both the lines should be part of the update address request. All the order lines of a release must be eligible for update request. If any one of the lines is not picked yet then the update is not permitted. NA Update request is not permitted if any one of the line of a release is not Picked yet Line 1: Release 1 - Release Line 1 - Picked Line 2: Release 1 - Release Line 2 - Released All the order lines of a release must have the same updated date. If any one of the lines is updated with a different date, then the update is not permitted. NA Update request is not permitted if the lines have different updated date. Line 1: Updated from Date 01/05/2022 to 05/05/2022 Line 2: Updated from Date 01/05/2022 to 06/05/2022 The following attribute must be populated on all the "PickUpAtStore" or "ShipToStore" order lines of the release and cannot be null or a past date orderLineAdditional.PickUpExpiryDate NA Update is restricted if the number of remaining attempts exceeds the configured value Note: Number of remaining attempts is validated only for the request initiated through DSS or Order APIs. Order Parameters > Maximum number of pickup window extensions If the configured Maximum number of pickup window extensions value is 3, Customers can extend the date up to 3 times. If the request comes for the 4th time then the update is rejected. Update is restricted if any of the prior change request for a given order is still Open. NA Order Line 1 - Release 1 - Requested for new date, due to some technical exception, if this request remains in open, then any further request on the same line or on any of the other lines is not permitted. These open requests will go through re-attempt process and will be marked as success or failure depending on the fulfillment response. In case if it's open and the user tries re-attempts then such request is restricted. Extend Pickup Window in Digital Self-Service When a customer navigates to the Digital Self Service page to extend the pickup window, an eligible modification type call is made to the order component to evaluate if the pickup window can be extended. If the items cannot have the pickup window extended, error messaging is displayed. If the items can have the pickup window extended, DSS calculates the new pickup date based on the value defined in the extend pickup expiry days parameter in DSS configuration. The customer clicks "Confirm" to make the changes. When the changes are confirmed, DSS makes a synchronous save order call to update to order line pickup expiry date, and increase the order line extend pickup counter value. The order component makes a fall to the fulfillment component to update the fulfillment pickup expiry date. Extend PickUp Window in Store Fulfillment Processing of PickUp Expiry Date Requests When the shipping address modification request is made by the order management system, the below process is followed. Fulfillment Id doesn't exist Modification not allowed. It's a permanent failure and cannot be retried later with the same data requested. Fulfillment is not in picking Modification is allowed. Fulfillment is in picking Modification is allowed. Fulfillment is picked Pickup Expiry Date is updated on the Fulfillment if other validations pass Fulfillment is picked up or canceled or in packing (at least one package is packed) or packed or shipped. Modification is not allowed. It's a permanent failure and cannot be retried later. If the pickup window is extended by the Digital Self Service before submitting a pick, then the pickup date is not replaced by the date, calculated by Store Fulfillment using existing configuration "Maximum number of days allowed for customer to pick up an order" mentioned in the Fulfillment Process Configuration guide. Configuration Below is a checklist of all configuration and interface mapping changes required to enable extend pickup window. *Indicates that help is required by Manhattan services to complete this configuration. Otherwise, configuration can be done within the application or in external, customer-owned systems. Order Enable Order Modification Rules > Order Line > Update PickUpExpiry > Restrict from status to Fulfilled in the Order Configuration UI. Order Maximum number of pickup window extensions. Organization/Location Enable "isManhattanActiveLocation" flag to true for "LocationSubType" Store for a seamless integration with Manhattan Active® Omni Store. Email Enable Order Ready For PickUp emails if required by referring to the Transactional Emails guide. Text Enable Order Ready For PickUp text if required by referring to the  Transactional Text guide. Digital Self-Service Extend pickup expiry limit. Store Fulfillment Install the new mobile application*. Add resources to utilize the Late Order Cancellation API. This feature is available out of the box. No specific configuration is required for late order modification in Store Fulfillment. Contact Center None Order Configuration While using Order APIs for extend pickup window, add the transient field "PostReleaseModificationStatus" in the response template used. This field will indicate if the request was "Completed" or "Failure" after processing the request. Use the below API to update the response template, {{url}}/order/api/fwcore/responseTemplate/save Post Release Modification Status{ "Messages": null, "UpdatedTimestamp": "2022-07-24T16:23:00", "CreatedBy": "seeddata-importer", "CreatedTimestamp": "2022-07-24T16:23:00", "BaseEntity": "Order", "Process": null, "OrgId": null, "UpdatedBy": "seeddata-importer", "TemplateJson": { "OrderId": null, "CurrencyCode": null, "PostReleaseModificationStatus": null, "OrganizationId": null, "ReturnLabelEmail": null, "ReturnTotalWithoutFees": null, "TotalReturnFees": null, "OrderTotal": null, "ItemSeason": null, "CustomerId": null, "CustomerEmail": null, "CustomerPhone": null, "CustomerFirstName": null, "CustomerLastName": null, "SellingLocationId": null, "OrderToken": null, "Release": { "ReleaseId": null, "PostReleaseModificationStatus": null, "ReleaseLine": { "ReleaseLineId": null, "OrderLineId": null } }, "ReturnConfig": { "daysForEligibleReturn": null }, "OrderLine": { "ItemId": null, "AlternateOrderLineId": null, "PostReleaseModificationStatus": null, "OrderLineId": null, "AddressId": null, "IsReturnable": null, "ParentOrderLineId": null, "IsReturn": null, "IsEvenExchange": null, "SmallImageURI": null, "ItemWebURL": null, "ItemDescription": null, "ItemShortDescription": null, "ItemSeason": null, "ItemSize": null, "ItemColorDescription": null, "ReturnLineTotalWithoutFees": null, "UnitPrice": null, "Quantity": null, "SellingLocationId": null, "ShippingMethodId": null, "ShipToLocationId": null, "DeliveryMethod": { "DeliveryMethodId": null }, "OrderLinePromisingInfo": { "ShipToLocationId": null }, "ShipToAddress": { "Address": null }, "ReturnType": { "ReturnTypeId": null }, "OrderLineAdditional": { "ReturnReason": null }, "ReturnableQuantity": null, "refundPrice": null, "FulfillmentDetail": { "FulfilmentDate": null } }, "OrderType": { "OrderTypeId": null }, "DocType": { "DocTypeId": null }, "SellingChannel": { "SellingChannelId": null }, "ReturnStatus": null, "ReturnLabel": { "ReturnLabelDocId": null }, "QrCode": null }, "ContextId": "9099bc36-bdfe-4e15-a4a2-7a46f425fb02", "TemplateId": "PostReleaseModificationStatus", "Unique_Identifier": "6586797798368325472" } Use the above template in the Order API request, {{url}}/order/api/order/order/save?templateName=PostReleaseModificationStatus Sample Order Save Response With Post Release Modification Status Success{ "success": true, "header": null, "data": { "Messages": { "Message": [ { "Type": "INFO", "Code": "10254", "Description": "Completed", "ShortDescription": null, "ErrorCode": null, "ErrorField": null, "ResourceId": null, "QuickInfo": false, "BusinessKeys": null } ], "Size": 1 }, "PostReleaseModificationStatus": "Completed", "ItemSeason": null, "OrganizationId": null, "CurrencyCode": "USD", "SellingLocationId": null, "CustomerPhone": null, "QrCode": null, "TotalReturnFees": 0, "CustomerFirstName": "John", "OrderType": { "OrderTypeId": "Ecom Order" }, "OrderLine": [ { "ShipToAddress": { "AddressName": null, "AvsReason": null, "Address": { "Email": "OMartell@yahoo.com", "FirstName": "Zeeshan", "State": "GA", "Phone": "423-306-1973", "Address2": "New Lake View 12", "Address3": null, "Country": "US", "PostalCode": "30039", "LastName": "H", "Address1": "2300 Windy ridge Pkwy", "City": "Swanee", "County": null }, "IsAddressVerified": true, "AddressId": "4357ac784a5d349a9067ee7ebb926a86" }, "PostReleaseModificationStatus": "Completed", "IsReturnable": true, "ItemSeason": null, "ItemWebURL": "", "ItemColorDescription": "Blue", "ItemId": "Tops-13153-Blue-L", "ItemDescription": "The Captain Popover is a new take on the beloved Skipper.", "IsReturn": false, "ShippingMethodId": "TwoDay", "SellingLocationId": null, "ParentOrderLineId": null, "refundPrice": null, "AddressId": "4357ac784a5d349a9067ee7ebb926a86", "ItemSize": "L", "ReturnableQuantity": 0, "ShipToLocationId": null, "DeliveryMethod": { "DeliveryMethodId": "ShipToAddress" }, "SmallImageURI": "http://res.cloudinary.com/com-manh-cp/image/upload/13153_resortwhitepackyourtrunk_a1.jpg", "ReturnLineTotalWithoutFees": 0, "Quantity": 1, "ReturnType": null, "FulfillmentDetail": [], "UnitPrice": 10, "OrderLineId": "1", "OrderLineAdditional": null, "ItemShortDescription": "CAPTAIN PRINTED POPOVER", "IsEvenExchange": false, "AlternateOrderLineId": null, "OrderLinePromisingInfo": { "ShipToLocationId": null } }, { "ShipToAddress": { "AddressName": null, "AvsReason": null, "Address": { "Email": "OMartell@yahoo.com", "FirstName": "Zeeshan", "State": "GA", "Phone": "423-306-1973", "Address2": "Lakeside 10", "Address3": null, "Country": "US", "PostalCode": "94043", "LastName": "H", "Address1": "1295 Charlestone rd", "City": "Mountain View", "County": null }, "IsAddressVerified": true, "AddressId": "f464d1bfb69144d92aaac55a1cfa85" }, "PostReleaseModificationStatus": "Completed", "IsReturnable": true, "ItemSeason": null, "ItemWebURL": "", "ItemColorDescription": "Blue", "ItemId": "Tops-13153-Blue-L", "ItemDescription": "The Captain Popover is a new take on the beloved Skipper.", "IsReturn": false, "ShippingMethodId": "TwoDay", "SellingLocationId": null, "ParentOrderLineId": null, "refundPrice": null, "AddressId": "f464d1bfb69144d92aaac55a1cfa85", "ItemSize": "L", "ReturnableQuantity": 0, "ShipToLocationId": null, "DeliveryMethod": { "DeliveryMethodId": "ShipToAddress" }, "SmallImageURI": "http://res.cloudinary.com/com-manh-cp/image/upload/13153_resortwhitepackyourtrunk_a1.jpg", "ReturnLineTotalWithoutFees": 0, "Quantity": 1, "ReturnType": null, "FulfillmentDetail": [], "UnitPrice": 10, "OrderLineId": "2", "OrderLineAdditional": null, "ItemShortDescription": "CAPTAIN PRINTED POPOVER", "IsEvenExchange": false, "AlternateOrderLineId": null, "OrderLinePromisingInfo": { "ShipToLocationId": null } } ], "CustomerEmail": null, "SellingChannel": { "SellingChannelId": "Web" }, "Release": [ { "PostReleaseModificationStatus": "Completed", "ReleaseLine": [ { "OrderLineId": "1", "ReleaseLineId": "1" } ], "ReleaseId": "TEST_0141" }, { "PostReleaseModificationStatus": "Completed", "ReleaseLine": [ { "OrderLineId": "2", "ReleaseLineId": "1" } ], "ReleaseId": "TEST_0142" } ], "DocType": { "DocTypeId": "CustomerOrder" }, "ReturnTotalWithoutFees": 0, "OrderToken": "UjLpp5jNUTSVIgO0zadp0e832d0c721ad49ace78496a67994458", "ReturnLabelEmail": null, "CustomerId": null, "OrderId": "TEST_014", "Payment": null, "ReturnConfig": null, "CustomerLastName": "H", "ReturnStatus": null, "ReturnLabel": [], "OrderTotal": 33.51 }, "messageKey": null, "message": null, "errors": [], "exceptions": [], "messages": { "Message": [], "Size": 0 }, "rootCause": null, "cloudComponent": "com-manh-cp-order:order,docker,omni,cloud,side,om-side,tenant0:8080", "cloudComponentHostName": "3f1de12ce3ed", "requestUri": null, "statusCode": "OK" } Implementation Flavors Extend pickup window requests can be initiated from external systems such as E-Commerce integrating via API. Refer here for more API details. Feature Scope Update PickUpExpiryDate is not supported from contact center. UIs and Entities NA Services The APIs listed in the following table are referenced in this document. Refer to the API documentation for additional details on each service. Service Component Group Service Endpoint Save Order Order Order Services /order/api/order/order/save Return all the eligible and ineligible mod types for input order Order Order Services /order/api/order/order/orderId/{orderId}/ModTypes Fulfillment Update Fulfillment Fulfillment Translate and Update Controller /fulfillment/api/fulfillment/fulfillment/update Troubleshooting Why is an update request consisting of released order lines not eligible for pickup expiry date update? Verify if the Pick Up Store or Ship To Store released line is eligible for update by calling the eligible mod type API for your order - {{url}}/order/api/order/order/orderId/{orderId}/ModTypes, verify for "OrderLine::PickupExpiryDate" mod types for the line. If yes, then follow step 2. Verify each order line in the request is in Picked status and above but less than Fulfilled status. If yes, then follow step 3. Verify if release location is MA Active location for all the order lines in the request. If yes, then follow step 4. Verify if each order line in the update request belongs to only one release. If yes, then follow step 5. Verify if any Open tracker request exists for the given order. If there are none, then follow step 6. Verify that the update is requested for all the order-lines under the release to which the requested line belongs to. If yes, then follow step 7. Verify if all the order lines belonging to same release have same Date for updating. Why is the pickup expiry date of the released order line not updated after requesting for update? Verify the order save response > Refer to section Release of corresponding order lines and look for “PostReleaseModificationStatus”. If the status is Failure, Fetch the Tracker details by using the below API GET {{url}}/order/api/order/postReleaseModificationTracker?query=OrderId={orderId} If Tracker Status for a release is Failure → The address update request has failed. Possible reasons can be: If a line in the request has crossed the eligible update state in the meanwhile, example packed or fulfilled, then the tracker can be marked as Failure. If fulfillment was down during the request, the tracker can be marked as Failure. But, if fulfillment was down during retry attempt, it should stay in Open status. Why is an exception thrown when pickup expiry date update is requested? If a 500 error is received, then possible reasons for such an exception can be that time out occurred between Order Management and Fulfillment Sync call. In such case, the transaction update on order is rolled back, and the tracker will remain in Open status for further reattempts through delayed message after a minute. Verify the tracker status as mentioned below: Fetch the Tracker details by using the below API GET {{url}}/order/api/order/postReleaseModificationTracker?query=OrderId=. {orderId} If Tracker Status for a release is Open → The message posted is a delayed message, so please wait for a few seconds and check again. If it is still stuck in Open after few mins then do the following: Check the Failed Messages table and filter for "PostReleaseAddressUpdateMSGType" under Message Type. If multiple rows are returned, select each row and click on VIEW at the top. Then go to the PAYLOAD DETAILS section and check that the order Id which is mentioned there is same as the order Id in your address update request. If so, come back to the main table and note which was that row. For the row found above, if the value under the Next Runtime is mentioned, then wait till that time and check again as it will retry on its own. If Next Runtime is empty, then you can manually retry. For doing so, again select the row and click on VIEW option, go to the MESSAGE DETAILS section, set the status to READY and click on the REPOST button at the bottom. If the tracker is still in Open status after the above steps, then update the tracker manually to Failure using below API, API: {{url}}/order/api/order/postReleaseModificationTracker/save Request Body{ "Messages": null, "Status": { "StatusId": "Failure" }, "UpdatedTimestamp": "2022-03-22T10:26:01.895", "CreatedBy": admin@ecomorg.com, "CreatedTimestamp": "2022-03-22T10:24:09.362", "TrackerId": "6479446492704733346", "Process": null, "ReleaseId": "MS_STA_111", "OrderId": "MS_STA_11", "OrgId": "ecomorg", "UpdatedBy": admin@ecomorg.com, "ContextId": "a0ff244f-5e54-4385-81d6-fbe2df385907", "Payload": "{\"OrderId\":\"MS_STA_11\",\"OrderLine\":[{\"OrderLineId\":\"1\",\"ShipToAddress\":{\"Actions\":{},\"PK\":\"6479446484665528335\",\"CreatedBy\":\admin@ecomorg.com\,\"CreatedTimestamp\":[2022,3,22,10,24,8,466000000],\"UpdatedBy\":\admin@ecomorg.com\,\"UpdatedTimestamp\":[2022,3,22,10,24,8,466000000],\"Messages\":null,\"OrgId\":\"ecomorg\",\"PurgeDate\":null,\"OrderId\":\"MS_STA_11\",\"AddressId\":\"5ccff7da3b8321ba6eea565c77b3c0d0\",\"IsAddressVerified\":true,\"AddressName\":\"El Paso Texas\",\"Address\":{\"FirstName\":\"Megada\",\"LastName\":\"Sujatha1\",\"Address1\":\"500 E\",\"Address2\":\"San Antonio Ave\",\"Address3\":\"#123\",\"City\":\"El Paso\",\"State\":\"TX\",\"PostalCode\":\"79901\",\"County\":\"El Paso\",\"Country\":\"US\",\"Phone\":\"423-306-1973\",\"Email\":\sujathamanhattan@gmail.com\},\"AvsReason\":null,\"AVSReasonComments\":null,\"Extended\":{}},\"AddressId\":\"5ccff7da3b8321ba6eea565c77b3c0d0\"}]}", "PK": "6479446493625704408", "PurgeDate": null, "Unique_Identifier": "6479446493625704408__6479446492704733346" } Note: Whether expiry date has already been updated at the fulfillment side by this time or not, if you mark the tracker as Failure, then you can request again for the same expiry date update. If it stays Open, you can't request for update again for any order line belonging to this order. Thus, you update the status to Failure. If the date was already updated at fulfillment side, then the tracker should now be marked as Completed based on Success response. If it was not updated at fulfillment side, it will be a re-request to process. Related Articles Prevent Shipment on Payment FailureLate Order CancellationChange Shipping AddressPull Back Released Orders