# Extensions Dashboard

**Permalink:** extensionsdashboard
**Content Length:** 15,464 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:39:32.068812

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Administrator Tools&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan ProActive® ››Extensions Dashboard Extensions Dashboard OverviewMetrics&nbsp;Deployed ExtensionsHeaderExtension TypesVersionDeployment StatusFiltersMetricsExtension DetailsPerformanceExtension LogsManageDetails Overview The Extensions Dashboard&nbsp;offers a consolidated perspective of the Extensions deployed by Proactive&reg;.&nbsp;Viewing the dashboard, users can&nbsp;filter to view specific extensions, analyze metrics about the extensions, and access in-depth information for any selected extension. The dashboard provides visibility regarding the extensions developed by developers and their successful deployment, and&nbsp;where they are enabled.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Note: In the event the Dashboard labels are not appearing, go to the System Menu and select the Generate Extension Dashboard Labels option. After waiting a few minutes and returning to the Extension Dashboard, the labels should then load as expected. &nbsp; Metrics&nbsp; The Metrics tab displays a series of tiles that provide insight into the number of&nbsp;extension packs configured for each metric. Upon clicking on a tile, the extension pack list page will be displayed with a filter narrowing down the extension packs to those that are associated with the metric. The available metrics for extension packs&nbsp;are listed below. Metric Description In Progress Includes the statuses of Created, In Progress, and Ready to Deploy Deployed Status of deployed Manhattan Extensions Maintained by Manhattan Customer Extensions Maintained by the customer Custom Services Extension packs with custom API definitions and/or Composite APIs Database Database Attributes, Flexible Database Attributes, and Custom Indexes User Exits One or more user exits Events One or more events Localization Custom text extensions Reports One or more report extensions Desktop UI Customizations One or more Desktop UI extensions &nbsp; &nbsp; Deployed Extensions The deployed extensions appear as tiles on the dashboard. Each tile provides key information about the extension pack. &nbsp; &nbsp; This information is outlined below. &nbsp; Header The tile header specifies the title of the Extension Pack. In addition, if the Extension Pack has&nbsp;an error occur&nbsp;during deployment, the header will appear red and an icon will also appear alerting the user that the Extension Pack needs some attention. &nbsp; Extension Types Each Extension Pack can have one&nbsp;or more extension types associated with it. A chip with a label will appear on the tile for each Extension Type that has been configured in the Extension Pack. The available Extension Types are the following: Custom Services Database User Exits Events Localization Report Desktop UI &nbsp; Version The Extension Type labels on&nbsp;the tile will also contain the version of the Extension Pack that is deployed. V1.0, V2.0, and so on. If the Extension Pack is a Manhattan maintained&nbsp;extension, the Manhattan icon will also appear to the left of the version. &nbsp; Deployment Status The footer of the Extension Pack will display the deployment status. The Extension Pack will be deployed, or if an error occurs, the Deployment Failed status will appear here to indicate that the extension needs to be evaluated. &nbsp; Filters The Extensions Dashboard Extension Pack Tiles can be filtered by expanding the filter pane via the Filter Icon. This icon will display a number that indicates how many filters are applied to the dashboard. The extensions can be filtered by Last Updated Time, Extension Pack Name, Extension Pack Maintainer, and Extensions Type. &nbsp; Metrics The metrics carousel provides metrics across all Extension Packs configured in ProActive. The metrics available are: Custom Services Database Indexes Flexible Database Attributes Database Attributes User Exits Events Documents Desktop UIs Mobile UIs &nbsp; Extension Details By clicking on a tile, the Extensions Dashboard&nbsp;empowers users to address issues with extensions. If an extension is not performing as anticipated, then the dashboard allows users to access its status, performance statistics, and access extension logs. This information helps in identifying the root cause of the problem and provides a solution. &nbsp; Performance Users can view the performance of implemented extension handlers within the extension. Two visual and concise metrics are displayed on the Overall Tab. The first metric is the&nbsp;call summary, which displays the volume of calls made to the extension handler within&nbsp;the last 24 hours. The chart depicts the total number of successful and failed calls&nbsp;made to the extension handler during that timeframe.&nbsp;&nbsp; The second metric is the&nbsp;average time summary,&nbsp;which displays&nbsp;the call during a particular timeframe.&nbsp;This chart displays separate lines representing the average time for successful calls and the average time for failed calls. The Details tab provides a visual of the response times for the different routes configured in the extension. Users can view the&nbsp;response time for each route&nbsp;or switch to the call volume view. &nbsp; Extension Logs The extensions&nbsp;dashboard presents the log information associated with the extension. Below you will find the features available for the logs of the extension handlers of an extension pack. Route Selection&nbsp;- By default, all routes will be included when routing is enabled.&nbsp; Select a specific route from the drop-down to only perform logging for specific individual results. Enable Logging&nbsp;- This toggle will turn on logging for the routes selected. The system will create logs for a 12-hour period. Search -&nbsp;Use this field to narrow down the results of the logs being displayed by a key word or criteria. Date Range -&nbsp;Use this field to narrow down the results of the logs being displayed by a specific date range.&nbsp; Download&nbsp;- Download the logs to be viewed offline. &nbsp; Manage The manage action on the Extension Details page allows the user to access the Manage Deployment screen. This screen has toggleable options which can be chosen to either enable or disable the Extension Pack for selected Organizations and Business Units or completely turn off the Extension Pack.&nbsp;The dependent extension packs section of the screen allows you to view which extension packs will be affected if the extension pack being managed is toggled off. Using the search option, you can find certain Organizations and/or Business Units. Each widget to toggle the extensions on/off is treated as a resource and managed by a specific grant. Therefore, different users can have access to carry out different use cases, based on a combination of grants and authorized Organizations and/or Business Units.&nbsp;Any toggles the user does not have a grant for will appear with a lock icon next to them. Note: This change does not impact DB extensions and is supported for UI extensions only at this time. &nbsp; Details The Details action on the Extension Details page allows you to modify the Extension pack using the Extension Pack Builder.