# Field Extensions

**Permalink:** field-extensions
**Content Length:** 12,861 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:39:36.719375

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Administrator Tools&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan ProActive®&rsaquo;&rsaquo;User Interface Extensibility&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Contact Center UI Extensibility ››Field Extensions Field Extensions LabelsTextCheck BoxesDrop-DownsSample API Response for Drop-DownsDate PickersHow to Change Date Format Display for Custom FieldsTableRowField Extensions on Order Status Page&nbsp;&nbsp;TroubleshootingIf an existing &#39;field&#39; UI extension point is used to capture email as an extended attribute on the line, what is the approach to ensure the email is entered before proceeding to the payment page?Required field validation does not work on field extensibility on a call center billing/shipping addressField extensibility is removing decimal points zero from UI displayUnable to display the OrderLine.Extended granularity in the Call Center UI and multiple objects/values of the same arrayRelated Articles Field extension can be used when you wish to display additional fields&nbsp;which are not displayed out of the box. This section describes field extensions which can be added to the Contact Center UIs. Field extensions can be of the below types. Labels Add a read-only text label&nbsp;within the base panel. For example, in the customer metrics panel of the Customer Dashboard, we display the customer&rsquo;s gender information using this configuration. Align the label/value combination in a row or column and&nbsp;style as per your requirements. Text Add editable text fields within base panels. For example,&nbsp;to add a Registry ID to the order header, extend the order entity by using the entity extensibility metadata and then add this field to the UI extensibility metadata. Check Boxes Add checkboxes within the base panels. Define the default behavior (true or false) in the metadata. For example, to provide an option in the UI to make an order&nbsp;returnable or not, add the returnable field in the order header panel. Note: By default, the check box will be placed before the label. However, there is a configuration &#39;Should the check box be placed after the label?&#39; which appears when you select the check box type on the Add field extension screen. This option can be selected if you want the check box to appear after the label. Drop-Downs Add drop-downs with pre-filled values as well. The values of the drop-down are displayed by calling the Values API URL defined in the metadata (See Extensions.ExtensionDetail.ExtensionProperties.Field.ValuesURL). The values API must follow the format the base application expects. Drop-down labels are populated using the&nbsp;response key.&nbsp;The value of the key is not displayed. Sample API Response for Drop-Downs { &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;data&quot;:[{ &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;item&quot; : &quot;item&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;value&quot;: &quot;shirt&quot; &nbsp; &nbsp; }, &nbsp; &nbsp; { &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;item&quot; : &quot;item&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;value&quot;: &quot;pant&quot; &nbsp; &nbsp; } &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; ] } &nbsp; Date Pickers Add date pickers within the base panels. For this extensibility, the value of Field Type (see Extensions.ExtensionDetail.ExtensionProperties.Field.Type) must be &quot;date&quot;. How to Change Date Format Display for Custom Fields For example, a&nbsp;retailer wants their custom date field to display using DD/MM/YYYY instead of MM/DD/YYYY. Date formatting for the Field label extension is possible by adding &quot;DateFormat&quot; inside the&nbsp;&quot;Field&quot; property in config JSON.&nbsp; All &quot;DateFormat&quot; properties are optional if format details are not available by default. &quot;LocaleId&quot;: userContext.userLocale (For locale en-us is MM/DD/YYYY and en-gb is DD/MM/YYYY) &quot;TimezoneId&quot;: userContext.userTimeZone &quot;Format&quot;: &quot;L HH:mm z&quot; userContext refers to the response of &#39;api/user/context&#39; &nbsp; Note: Arrays cannot be passed in the attributes in field extensions.&nbsp; TableRow The TableRow field extension type helps to fix the alignment of labels and the value combination in a table layout. This is currently supported only on the Customer Profile page. Field Extensions on Order Status Page&nbsp;&nbsp; Deprecated Extensions: Some field extensions are not recommended for use since they do not align with the pre-existing base fields. If you attempt to configure these extensions marked with a strikethrough, you will receive a message indicating that they are not aligned and have been deprecated. The system suggests selecting an alternative extension point. New Field Extensions:&nbsp;New field extensions, highlighted in yellow, are available and are recommended to resolve alignment issues. These fresh extensions offer styling options such as bold, italics, underline, and strikethrough. Styling Options:&nbsp;To enable these styling options (bold, italics, underline, and strikethrough), you need to check the corresponding checkboxes for the &quot;Key Style&quot; and &quot;Value Style&quot; fields in the Add Field Extension pop-up window. You can also select font colors for both key style and value style. Limited Scope:&nbsp;These changes and options are specific to the Order Status page only. Troubleshooting If an existing &#39;field&#39; UI extension point is used to capture email as an extended attribute on the line, what is the approach to ensure the email is entered before proceeding to the payment page? Add a custom button and hide the base. Proceed to the payment button. On click of the custom button, do the validation and throw an error popup if validation fails, else call ackEvent of the base, and then&nbsp;Proceed to payment. Required field validation does not work on field extensibility on a call center billing/shipping address Is Required in the field extension properties is only a UI indicator (adds *) and does not perform validation. Field extensibility is removing decimal points zero from UI display For base fields we have currency formatting, for field extensions since no formatting is in place as of today, the zeros&nbsp;are truncated. Unable to display the OrderLine.Extended granularity in the Call Center UI and multiple objects/values of the same array The array of values cannot be displayed with a field extension approach. Refer here for more details. Related Articles Left Navigation MenuButtonsPatternsOverviewExtension Util FunctionsIntercept UI API CallsBase Components Best PracticesiFrames