# Filters

**Permalink:** filters
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning/UI Help/Common Functions/Filters
**Content Length:** 26,910 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:09:39.249251

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning››UI Help››Common Functions ››Filters Filters FiltersFilter PersonalizationSaved FiltersDefault FilterFilter ButtonsRefreshUsing Custom FiltersNavigation OptionsAdvanced Selection Filters for allocations are used to filter records based on different criteria such as Task Id and Source Type. Note: Click the filter icon  to expand or collapse the filter panel. The different types of filters are defined in the following table: Filter Image Description Search You can search using a keyword. Note: 1. To perform a search, enter a minimum of two characters including a wildcard (*). 2. You can enter multiple values separated by a comma. For example, Status, Purchase Order, Source Id, and Source Type, and it will return results related to purchase order, source id, type, and status of the order. Multiple select check boxes You can select one or more check boxes to search a record from the displayed list. Note: After selecting each filter, the corresponding count of records are displayed. This will determine the total number of records associated with each filter. Drop-down List The filter selection for categories is also displayed as a drop-down list, you can select the source type, from the drop-down list. Date and Time Control You can select the date range from the calendar to display the records within the selected date range. Note 1. Time range can be selected from a pre-defined range or can be entered manually. The date format must be keyed-in exactly as suggested in the fields. 2. You can use the advanced date picker to select a specific time range or you can select a specific time of the day, by 30 minutes down-periods. Quick Selection Definition Today <Date in database>, 00:00 -23:59 Current Month <Date in database>+1, 00:00 -23:59 Tomorrow <Date in database>+1, 00:00 -23:59 Next 7 Days <Date in database>+1, 00:00 until <Date in database> +7, -23:59 Next  14 Days <Date in database>+1, 00:00 until <Date in database> +14, -23:59 Next  60 Days <Date in database>+1, 00:00 until <Date in database> +30, -23:59 Next 90 Days <Date in database>+1, 00:00 until <Date in database> +60, -23:59 Yesterday <Date in database> -1, 00:00 -23:59 Last 7 Days <Date in database>-7, 00:00 until <Date in database> -1, -23:59 Last  14 Days <Date in database>-14, 00:00 until <Date in database> -7, -23:59 Last 30 Days <Date in database>-30, 00:00 until <Date in database> -1, -23:59 Last 60 Days <Date in database>-60, 00:00 until <Date in database> -1, -23:59 Last 90  Days <Date in database>-90, 00:00 until <Date in database> -1, -23:59 Note: 1. To view the filters applied, click . This displays the filters that are applied to the selected records. 2. To clear all the applied filters, click . 3. You can clear an individual filter by clicking on . Filter Personalization You can personalize the filter panel to display specific filter facets (or filter-able criteria) by selecting the gear icon within the filter panel. Select the gear icon to view the list of Available and Selected filter facets. Within these lists, you can drag and drop (including multi-select drag and drop) filter facets to be displayed (Selected) or not (Available) as well as re-sequence the filter facets. Additionally, you can select all records in a given list through a checkbox at the top of the list. Some filter facets are displayed at all times to simplify the navigation through the allocation dashboard. The required facets are denoted with a different color highlight and cannot be moved to the Available list. Saved Filters Saved filters provide you the ability to save a set of filter facets for quick access on each page. Selecting the bookmark icon on the filter panel displays a pop up where you can enter a unique saved filter name. After saving the filter, you can select the configured saved filter from a drop-down directly on the filter panel. The save filter option is set for the user logged in. Follow the steps to save the filter. Complete the selection of filters. Click  icon, to view the Save Filter pop-up window. Enter Name and Description in the corresponding text box. To save this filter as a default filter select Set as Default checkbox. Select  to set this as favorite filter. Click Save. All the filters saved are listed in the drop-down list. Note: You cannot create a saved filter with the same name. However, you can rename a saved filter's name. In addition to creating new saved filters, you can also delete created filters. Default Filter You can select a saved filter per page and set it as the 'default' or 'favorite' filter. After setting the default filter it will automatically be selected whenever you navigate to the given page. Note: You can select only one default filter per page. Not having a filter is also an option. Filter Buttons These buttons in the filter pane enable you to select and clear the previously made selections. Filter Button Icon Description Clear All Clears the complete filter selections made. Clear Click to initiate the search based on the filter criteria set. Apply Clears the filter criteria of the selected section. For example, click the Clear button in the Division section to clear the filter criteria selected in this section. Refresh Click Refresh  to refresh the page. This refreshes the data at the UI level.  You can refresh all the screens in Allocation at once by clicking the refresh icon from the Dashboard page. Using Custom Filters For advanced filtering options, such as viewing attributes from the customized filter. Click    icon to view the Customize Filters window. Select the attributes available in Available Filters and drag and drop the attributes to the Selected Filters attributes list. Click OK. Navigation Options The Allocation dashboard  allows you to navigate through the different pages of the record list: Navigation Option Icon Description Next Page Displays the list of records on the following page. Previous Page Displays the list of records on the previous page. Advanced Selection Enables you to select the required date time lines using the calendar. Follow the steps to select a date time line: Click Advanced to select the date time line. Select the From and To date. Alternatively, you can choose the date time lines from the calendar or enter the From and To date in the text box in DDMMYYYY format. Use the slider to choose the start and end time. Click Apply.