# Firebase account for Push Notifications

**Permalink:** firebase-account
**Path:** Administrator Tools/Store/Store - Resign Process/Firebase account for Push Notifications
**Content Length:** 40,829 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:11:53.030935

---

Home ››Administrator Tools››Store››Store - Resign Process ››Firebase account for Push Notifications Firebase Account for Push Notifications Initial SetupiOS SetupGet APNS key from AppleUpload the APNS key to FirebaseAndroid SetupFirebase Cloud Messaging API (V1) Active Omni uses Firebase Cloud Messaging (FCM) for sending notifications to devices. Push notifications are supported on iOS, Android and browsers. Windows push notifications are not currently supported. This guide explains the process of creating a firebase account and retrieving details needed for the Store app re- signing process. Note: Firebase Cloud Messaging (FCM) is a cross-platform messaging solution that lets you reliably send messages at no cost. Please refer to Google pricing here. Initial Setup iOS Setup Note: To enable the PUSH notification on iOS device, a Google account is required. You can either use an existing Google account or create a new one. The same Google account can be used for MAO Stage, Performance and Production environments. Login to Firebase Console Login to Firebase console using below URL with above Google account. https://console.firebase.google.com/ Click on “Add Project”. Enter the Project Name and click on “continue” (Step 1 of 3). Click on “continue” (Step 2 of 3) Click on “Create Project” (Step 3 of 3) Note: Enabling Google Analytics below is an optional step. Click on “continue”. After successful project creation, the page will be navigated to the project overview screen. Add an app to the project which got created in the previous step. Click on iOS icon to add an iOS app. Add Firebase to your iOS App: Add the below details in “Register App section” and click on “Register App” : iOS Bundle - com.yourcompany.app [ Use the same bundle Id which is provided during Apple Id creation in developer.apple.com] App nickname – XYZ [ Choose any unique name ] Skip the steps 2,3 and 4 in the 'Add Firebase to your iOS App' by just clicking next without any other input and by clicking “skip this step” on the step 4. Get APNS key from Apple Login to the Apple’s Developer account Generate an Apple key (.p8 file) with APN Services enabled and save it. This is a one-time downloadable file and needs to be kept safe. Keep a note of the TeamID and KeyID as well from this step. Upload the APNS key to Firebase Navigate back to the Firebase account. Go to project settings as shown below. Please make sure the selected project is correct. Click on “Cloud messaging tab” in project settings page and upload the Key file. Enter the Team ID and KeyID from step 12. In the Project setting page, click on the “General” tab and go to “your apps” section to download the “GoogleService-Info.plist” file. Save this file to use during the resigning process of the iOS app. Get the “Server key” and “Sender Id” keys under “Project credentials” section At the end of this setup, you should have the below details GoogleService-Info.plist Server Key Sender ID Share the server key and sender id to Manhattan Services team to set them as part of deployment  properties. The GoogleServices-Info.plist will be used for resigning process. Refer to iOS Re-sign Process. Note: Ensure to provide the separate server key and sender id for each environment stage, Performance and Production. Android Setup Note: To enable the push notification on Android devices, a Google account is required. You can either use an existing Google account or create a new one. The same Google account can be used for MAO Stage, Performance and Production environments. Use an existing Google account or create a new Google account. Login to the Firebase console using https://console.firebase.google.com/ and the credentials created in the above step. Click on “Add Project”. Enter the project name and click on “Create Project”. Click on “continue” after successful project creation and the page will be navigated to the project overview screen. Add an app to the project which got created in the previous step. Click on Android icon to add an Android app. Add the below details in “1 Register App section” and click on “Register App” Android Package name - com.manh.storeui App nickname - storefulfillment Skip the steps 1, 2 and 3 by just clicking next without any other input and by clicking “skip” on the step 4. Native to "project settings" as shown below and ensure the selected project is correct. In Project setting page , Click on “General” tab and go to “your apps” section to download the “google-services.json” file. Note: Save this file as this will be used during the resigning process of the Android APK. Click on “Cloud messaging tab” in project settings page and get the “Server key” and “Sender Id” keys under “Project credentials” section. At the end of this setup , you have to have the below details google-services.json Server key Sender ID Step 1 to 11 completes the Firebase account setup and the APK needs to be resigned using google-services.json file. While resigning use the option “-f google-services.json” to associate the newly created Firebase account for push notifications. Share the server key, sender ID, and bundle ID to MA services to configure it in deployment properties. The google-services.json will be used for resigning process. Refer to Android Re-sign Process. Firebase Cloud Messaging API (V1) Once the appropriate OS setup (iOS or Android) steps listed above have been completed, complete the Firebase Cloud Messaging setup. Note: The migration from the Firebase legacy FCM APIs to Firebase Cloud Messaging (V1) APIs is controlled by Change in Behavior "Store - Firebase Push Notification API Migration". Refer here for additional information on the change in behavior framework including when this feature will be automatically enabled and steps on how to enable it earlier. Open Firebase project → Go to Project Settings → Cloud Messaging. Enable Firebase Cloud Messaging API V1 by navigating to Manage API in Google Cloud Console Page. Once it is enabled, return to Project Settings to verify that Firebase Cloud Messaging API V1 is enabled. Go to ‘Service Accounts’ Tab and click on ‘Generate new private key’ button. Click on ‘Generate key’. This will download a service account JSON file which contains the project ID, client ID and private key. Contact MA Services to update KVstore/config/application.properties in KV consul. These values can be copied directly from the downloaded JSON file. Sample values are shown below for explanation purpsoses. Property Name Value firebase.messagingSenderId 3********** firebase.multiparam.subscription.url https://iid.googleapis.com/iid/v1/{0}/rel/topics/{1} firebase.serviceAccountDetails { "type": "service_account", "project_id": "xxxx-cloud-xxxxx", "private_key_id": "87*********68", "private_key": "-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----\nMIIE*****************==\n-----END PRIVATE KEY-----\n", "client_email": "firebase-adminsdk-wjk2z@xxx-cloud-xxxx.iam.gserviceaccount.com", "client_id": "1**********847", "auth_uri": "https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/auth", "token_uri": "https://oauth2.googleapis.com/token", "auth_provider_x509_cert_url": "https://www.googleapis.com/oauth2/v1/certs", "client_x509_cert_url": "https://www.googleapis.com/robot/v1/metadata/x509/firebase-adminsdk-wjk2z%40xxx-xxx-xxx.iam.gserviceaccount.com", "universe_domain": "googleapis.com" } firebase.subscription.url https://iid.googleapis.com/iid/v1: firebase.restrictedPackageName [ Only For Android if we are changing the Bundle Id ] “com.xxx.xxxx”