# Forecast Policies

**Permalink:** forecast-policies
**Content Length:** 20,164 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:36.118448

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Configurations&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Forecast ››Forecast Policies Forecast Policies Forecast PoliciesFiltersCreating a Forecast PolicyEditing a Forecast PolicyDeleting a Forecast PolicyField DescriptionAction Buttons The Forecast Policies page enables you to create guidelines that specify the rules for generating forecasts. Using this page, you will be able to define the forecast policy, specify the forecast accuracy metrics, and also set the item location&nbsp;nodes for the forecast policy. Forecast Policies can generate forecasts at leaf and aggregate location levels. Forecast Policies generate forecasts for one demand type. Demand types can contain one of many metric types which will be forecasted together. &nbsp; Filters Following is the list of filters available on this screen: Forecast Policy Id Description Department Class Subclass Location&nbsp; Type Region &nbsp; Creating a Forecast Policy &nbsp; To create a new Forecast Policy: &nbsp; Select Menu &gt; Configurations&nbsp;&gt; Forecast &gt; Forecast Policies. Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Click Create to view the Forecast Policy window. On the Forecast Policy Definition page, enter a Forecast Policy Id (Mandatory field)&nbsp;and Description. Select a Demand Type&nbsp;(Mandatory field) from the drop-down list. Select a Location Level&nbsp;(Mandatory field) from the drop-down list.&nbsp; Notes:&nbsp;Locations for which the forecast policy applies can be specified using location filters: Location Type, Region, District.&nbsp;When forecasts are generated at aggregate levels, aggregate forecasts are generated for all locations belonging to each location group; therefore lower level location filters are not applicable and will be hidden. Example: If a&nbsp;user selects&nbsp;&nbsp;Region as the&nbsp;Locations Level,&nbsp; lower-level location filters, District and Location Type, will not be displayed as they are not&nbsp;applicable to Region level forecasts. &nbsp; &nbsp;Select values for Location Type, Region, District to filter the forecast policy for a specific Location Type, Region and/or District. Applicable filters are dependent on the selected Location Level as mentioned above. Forecast policies can be created for specific Departments, Classes, and Subclasses. Select a Department, Class, Subclass, from the given drop-down lists. NOTE: If NO values are selected for Department, Class, Subclass, the forecast policy will apply to ALL items&nbsp;and no other forecast policy can be created for selected location set. This is because system prevents overlapping policies. Please consider if multiple forecast policies are needed prior to creating the policies. NOTE: Once a Forecast Policy is saved, the following fields cannot be changed: &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; a) Forecast Policy Id &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; b) Demand Type &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; c) Location Filters &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; d) ItemFilters Set the desired values for Forecast Accuracy Goal, Forecast Bias Goal,&nbsp;Forecast Accuracy Horizon, Forecast Confidence Goal (%) and&nbsp;Number of Weeks to use for Disaggregation % Calculation. &nbsp;Click Save and Continue. Below are the default values for some of the parameters: Parameter Default Value Allowed Values Forecast Accuracy Goal 90% 0 - 100% Forecast Bias Goal 20% 0 - 100% &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Forecast Accuracy Horizon &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 4 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 0 - 104 Forecast Confidence Goal 90% 0 - 100% &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Number of Weeks to use for&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Disaggregation % Calculation &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;8 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;1 - 13% On the Forecast Modelling Configurations page, you can specify the modelling level, attributes, and sequence for forecast modelling.&nbsp;Click Add New to open the Modelling Level window. On the Modelling Level Configuration page, enter the values for Modelling Level Sequence, Modelling Level Name, and click Save and Continue. On the Select Modelling Item Attributes page, click Add New, and select a Modelling Item Attribute Id from the drop-down list.&nbsp;Click Save and Continue. On the Select Modelling Location Attributes page, click Add New,&nbsp;and select a Modelling Location Attribute Id from the drop-down list.&nbsp;Click Save and Finish. Clicking Save and Continue opens the Forecast Modelling Parameters page. You can set the values for Yearly Weight (%) - Year 1,&nbsp;Yearly Weight (%) - Year 2,&nbsp;Yearly Weight (%) - Year 3,&nbsp;Yearly Weight (%) - Year 4 and&nbsp;Exclude Like Item Locations with similarity values.&nbsp;Enter a value for&nbsp;Exclude Like Item Locations with a Similarity Measure lower than&nbsp;and Minimum count of like item locations to get proper forecast.&nbsp;Choose a value for Specify method for generating Lifecycle Profile,&nbsp;and click Save and Finish. Below are the default values for some of the parameters: Parameter Default Value Allowed Values Yearly Weight (%) - Year 1 25% 0 - 100% Yearly Weight (%) - Year 2 25% 0 - 100% Yearly Weight (%) - Year 3 25% 0 - 100% Yearly Weight (%) - Year 4 25% 0 - 100% Allowable % Error off the target value 50% 0 - 100% Similar PL Threshold 0.1 0 - 1 Minimum Similar PL Count 10 4 - 16 Note:&nbsp;All mandatory fields are denoted with *. Editing a Forecast Policy &nbsp; You can edit the attributes of an existing Forecast Policy using one of the below procedures: &nbsp; Swipe-out List Select Menu &gt; Configurations&nbsp;&gt; Forecast &gt; Forecast Policies. Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Select the required policy. Swipe-out the menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Edit. In the Forecast Policy&nbsp;window, modify the required fields except for Forecast Policy Id. Click&nbsp;Save & Close&nbsp;to save the modified policy details. Edit View Select the required policy record card. The action buttons are displayed in the footer section. Click&nbsp;Edit&nbsp;to view the Forecast Policy window. Modify the required fields except for Forecast Policy Id. Click&nbsp;Save & Close&nbsp;to save the modified policy details. &nbsp; Deleting a Forecast Policy &nbsp; The policy records can be deleted by following one of the below procedures: &nbsp; Swipe-out List Select Menu &gt; Configurations&nbsp;&gt; Forecast &gt; Forecast Policies. Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Swipe-out menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts as 'Deletion of Forecast Policy is irreversible'. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the policy. Delete Select the required record card. The footer section with action buttons is displayed. Select&nbsp;Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts as 'Deletion of Forecast Policy is irreversible'. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the policy. &nbsp; Field Description Following are the field descriptions of the attributes available on the screen. &nbsp; Field Description Forecast Policy Id An alphanumeric ID that uniquely defines each policy. Note: Only letters and numbers are allowed. Special characters are not permitted. Description The description of the policy. Demand Type Used to select one of the demand types configured in the system. This will enable forecasting based on demand values from the metric types associated with the given demand type. This is a required field. Users must assign one of the existing demand types to each forecast policy. Users cannot change demand type value&nbsp;for any existing forecast policy after it has been created. Location Level Used to select location level at which forecast will be generated. Levels higher than Location generate aggregate forecasts that are disaggregated to all locations belonging to each location group, e.g. forecast generated for North East region are disaggregated to all districts and locations with North East region.&nbsp;This is a required field. Users must select one of the levels in the location hierarchy for each forecast policy. Example: Location, Region and District. Users cannot change location level value for any existing forecast policy after it has been created. Department Select a department to filter items for which the forecast policy applies. Users cannot change department value&nbsp;for any existing forecast policy after it has been created. &nbsp;NOTE: If NO values are selected for Department, Class, or Subclass, the forecast policy will apply to ALL items&nbsp;and no other forecast policy can be created for selected location set. This is because system prevents overlapping policies. Please consider if multiple forecast policies are needed prior to creating forecast policies. &nbsp; Class Select a class to filter items for which the forecast policy applies. Users cannot change the class value&nbsp;for any existing forecast policy after it has been created. Subclass Select a class to filter items for which the forecast policy applies.&nbsp; Users cannot change subclass value&nbsp;for any existing forecast policy after it has been created. Location Type Displays the location type. The selected location type becomes a location filter for the forecast policy. Location Type will not be displayed when location levels are higher than the location (i.e. Region or District) are selected. When forecasts are generated at aggregate levels, aggregate forecasts include all location types; therefore, location type does not need to be defined. Users cannot change location type value for any existing forecast policy after it has been created. Region Displays the region. The selected region becomes a location filter for the forecast policy. Users cannot change the region value for any existing forecast policy after it has been created. District Displays the district. The selected district becomes a location filter for the forecast policy. The district will not be displayed when location levels higher than District are selected. When forecasts are generated at higher levels than District, aggregate forecasts include all Districts under the higher level; therefore District filter is not applicable. Users cannot change the district value for any existing forecast policy after it has been created. &nbsp; &nbsp; Action Buttons Following are the action buttons available on the screen. &nbsp; Select All Rows Selects all the rows of records on the screen. Export Exports the list of forecast policy attributes, the file will be downloaded onto your system. View&nbsp;Export&nbsp;for more information. Create Opens the Forecast Policy window.&nbsp; Deselect Clears the selected records. Edit Opens the relevant Size Profile Policy window. Details Opens the Forecast Policy window to provide more details of the selected record. Delete Deletes the selected record. Generate Model Demand Creates sales history data for items that are discontinued, and stores this information with Actual Lifecycle Demand. Generate Lifecycle Profile Creates Lifecycle profile for the selected policy record. Forecast Initialization Initializes forecast for the selected policy record.