# Forecast Initialization

**Permalink:** forecast-initialization
**Content Length:** 20,577 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:37:21.706508

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process &amp; Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Demand Forecasting ››Forecast Initialization Forecast Initialization Previous&nbsp;I&nbsp;Next OverviewProcess FlowConfigurationUIs and EntitiesServicesRelated Articles Overview Forecasting is the art and science of predicting future events. It may involve taking historical data and projecting it into the future with a sort of statistical /mathematical model. An initialized forecast is one where all demand history periods are optionally used to calculate a new forecast. It is the process of predicting future sales by using historical and current events. During forecast initialization (FI), the system calculates the weighted average demand for all the available history. FI process creates forecast entities and also initializes the forecast, forecast projections (for the next 52 weeks) and forecast factor values. The system initializes the standard deviation of the forecast error in a similar way. The system also tracks other statistical measures of the forecast, such as sign error and tracking signal, for future forecast updates. Forecasts are initialized from a forecast policies. Process Flow As shown in the above process, upon triggering the forecast initialization for a particular policy, the system retrieves the forecast policy settings and, based on the filter condition, it gets the set of items from the OMNI-Item component. For every item-location, it fetches the cleansed sales from the demand metric component in order to compute the forecast. As an output, it generates a forecast entity which primarily consists of a forecast for the upcoming week and projections for the next 52 weeks. Forecast policy: Policies tell the system how to react to certain conditions. Forecast policies tell how to react to specific forecast situations. Creation and maintenance of forecast entities are governed by the rules set up in the forecast policy. An unlimited number of forecast policies can be created. One with the highest rank and forecast purpose type, &lsquo;Replenishment&rsquo;, will be used by the Inventory Optimization system. Key factors of forecast policy: The following picture shows fields that were populated while creating the forecast policy: Key factors for forecast policy &nbsp; The following are the steps involved in creating the forecast policy: Policy Definition: As part of this, we will set config values for forecast smoothing, control and exception policies. Also, which portion of sales history to be used for forecasting can be set. Note: Currently, the forecast is computed only for leaf level item and locations. Aggregate forecasting is supported in the near future. Forecast Method: Manhattan Associates&rsquo; Unified Forecasting Method (UFM) addresses the demand forecasting pitfalls in a new and sophisticated way. This is a more optimal approach to traditionally advanced forecast tools that use a &quot;pick best&quot; type of forecast methodology. We newly introduced machine learning capabilities for the forecasting process with UFM 2.0. Smoothing Policy - Smoothing policy determines how much weight goes to the most recent demand (historical sales) over forecast. The system uses the smoothing policy to update the forecast and for final initialization. For slow movers, lower smoothing factors and low damping factors usually give a more consistent forecast and accurate variance for the forecast error. This is also true for relatively fast movers with stable demand. Optimal (suggested by Manhattan) is driven by the lowest variance. Control Policy &ndash; Forecast Control Policy sets control on the creation and maintenance of forecasts. It also sets the parameters the system uses to filter abnormal demand and to set the upper limits for the smoothing factors for the forecast. User can create multiple forecast control policies that can then be assigned to forecast entities through the forecast policy. Additionally, the forecast control policy can also be overridden at the forecast entity (lowest) level. Exception Policy The forecast exception policy guides the forecast engine on how to react to specific forecasting exceptions. It contains basic exception outlier and trending thresholds as well as additional statistical filtering and model adjustment parameters associated with Advanced Exception Management (AEM). The forecast Exception Policy will be called from the Forecast Initialization as well as the Forecast Update. The forecast exception policy set to &lsquo;TIGHT&rsquo; generates more exceptions, &lsquo;NORMAL&rsquo; generates a little less and &lsquo;LOOSE&rsquo; generates minimal exceptions. Also, you can re-initialize a forecast when a forecast already exists. During the re-initialization process, all existing forecast history is deleted and rebuilt using newly entered parameters. Any manual overrides are deleted. Every forecast entity has only one corresponding forecast policy. The forecast policy is built from several related policies and used with the forecast entity to determine the forecast. Filter Condition: Using filter conditions for which item is at the location this policy is applicable to. As part of this section, a single item or multiple items can be added. Assignment policy: This determines when to override the forecast policy settings for a subset of forecast entities, based on specific criteria. Seasonal Profiles: Seasonal profiles policy will be associated with forecast policy in this step.&nbsp; This tells the system about how to handle the seasonality of an item-location. Users can add multiple seasonal profile policies and the first one with matching item-location(s) will be picked up. Forecast Initialization: When the user tries to run the forecast initialization process from forecast policy, it provides two options as shown in the snapshot below. By default, both will be defaulted to &lsquo;No&rsquo;: Forecastinit &nbsp; Reset to Policy Setting (Yes / No): This option will allow the system to pick the settings from either forecast policy or forecast entity. If the user selects the option as &lsquo;Yes&rsquo;, then it picks it up from policy. Otherwise, from the forecast entity. Initialize only Forecasts with Overrides (Yes / No): This option filters records for forecast initialization. If the user selects &lsquo;Yes&rsquo;, then it picks only overridden entities for process submission if not all the entities. Configuration Forecast Policy Creation POST&nbsp; {{url}}/ai-forecast/api/ai-forecast/forecastPolicy/save { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;SmoothingPolicy&quot;: { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;SmoothingPolicyId&quot;: &quot;Normal&quot; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; }, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;Description&quot;: &quot;Demo&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ForecastControlPolicy&quot;: &quot;Normal&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ForecastPolicyRank&quot;: 121, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;LastNumberOfPeriods&quot;: 4, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ForecastMethod&quot;: { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ForecastMethodId&quot;: &quot;UNIFIED_FORECASTING&quot; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; }, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ForecastPolicyId&quot;: &quot;Sample_policy1&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ForecastHistoryToDate&quot;: null, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ForecastHistoryFromDate&quot;: null, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ForecastPeriodType&quot;: { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ForecastPeriodTypeId&quot;: &quot;1_WEEKLY&quot; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; }, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ItemHierarchyId&quot;: &quot;ForecastHierarchy&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ItemHierarchyLevelId&quot;: &quot;ItemId&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;LocationHierarchyId&quot;: &quot;Primary&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;LocationHierarchyLevelId&quot;: &quot;LocationId&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ForecastFilterCondition&quot;: [ &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;EntityType&quot;: &quot;Item&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;FilterAttribute&quot;: &quot;ItemId&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;FilterValue&quot;: &quot;Antifreeze_Agent, Ceiling_Fan, Car_Battery, Airpods&quot; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; }, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;EntityType&quot;: &quot;Location&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;FilterAttribute&quot;: &quot;LocationId&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;FilterValue&quot;: &quot;Toranto_Store&quot; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; } &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; ], &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ForecastHistoryUsedType&quot;: { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ForecastHistoryUsedTypeId&quot;: &quot;A&quot; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; }, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;UpdateTrendFactor&quot;: true, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ForecastPurpose&quot;: { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ForecastPurposeId&quot;: &quot;Replenishment&quot; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; }, &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;MetricGroupId&quot; : &quot;Default-Sales&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ForecastPolicyLevels&quot;: null, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ForecastExceptionPolicy&quot;: &quot;Normal&quot; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; ,&quot;SeasonalProfilePolicyAssociation&quot;: [ &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;SeasonalProfilePolicyId&quot;: &quot;SeasonalProfiles_summer&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;Priority&quot;: 11 &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; } &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; ] } &nbsp; UIs and Entities The configuration UIs mentioned in this document are listed in the following table,&nbsp;along with information to&nbsp;navigate&nbsp;to the API documentation. UI Name Component Group Seed Data Present? &nbsp; Forecast Policy ai-forecast &nbsp; Yes&nbsp; Forecast Purpose &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Yes&nbsp; Forecast Period Type &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Yes&nbsp; Forecast Method &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Yes Forecast History Used Type &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Yes Smoothing Policy &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Yes Forecast Control Policy &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Yes Forecast Exception Policy &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Yes Filter Type &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Yes Filter Attribute &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Yes Forecast Assignment Purpose Forecasts&nbsp; ai-forecast &nbsp; _ _ Services The&nbsp;APIs listed in the following table are referenced in this document. Refer to the API documentation for additional details on&nbsp;each service. Service Component Group Service Endpoint Forecast Policy Forecast &nbsp; {{url}}/ai-forecast/api/ai-forecast/forecastPolicy/save Trigger FI Forecast &nbsp; {{url}}/ai-forecast/api/ai-forecast/forecastPolicy/initializeForecast/ Sample_policy1 Search By Forecast Entity by Policy Forecast &nbsp; {{url}}/ai-forecast/api/ai-forecast/forecast/search { &quot;Query&quot;: &quot;ForecastPolicy=&#39;RC_ForecastPolicy1&#39;&quot; } &nbsp; Forecast History Search Forecast &nbsp; {{url}}/ai-forecast/api/ai-forecast/forecastHistory/search Find by Item Location (used by Inventory Optimization) Forecast &nbsp; {{url}}/ai-forecast/api/ai-forecast/forecast/findByItemLocation?useCache=False Related Articles Forecast ExceptionsFuture Forecast AdjustmentsDemand ForecastingNew Item Location Auto-AssociatonAggregated Seasonal Profile Lost Sales for Forecasting Forecast Assignment CriteriaSeasonal ProfilingDay of Week ProfileDemand Classification &amp; CleansingExclusions RulesForecast SummaryForecast UpdateManual Forecast ChangeForecast Analysis &nbsp;