# Forecast Reservation

**Permalink:** forecast-reservation
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Order Management/Process & Configuration Guides/Order Promising/Forecast Reservation
**Content Length:** 36,434 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:56:07.901767

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Order Management››Process & Configuration Guides››Order Promising ››Forecast Reservation Forecast Reservation OverviewForecast ReservationsForecast Reservation and Call Off Order StrategyCall-off Order AllocationHow to Create a Demand ConfigurationHow to Create a Forecast Reservation for a CustomerHow a Parent Customer can Share it's Forecast Reservation with his Child CustomerHow to Create a Call-off orderHow to Configure Forecast Reservation And Call Off Order StrategyPrioritization of Call-off Order, Forecast Reservation, and Normal Order Overview In a B2B supply chain, a retailer must ensure sufficient inventory availability for its customers. To achieve this, the retailer reserves inventory in advance from its vendor based on forecasted demand. The vendor, in turn, sets aside the forecasted inventory exclusively for the retailer, ensuring availability when required. This arrangement ensures a certain level of business for the vendor within a specific timeframe. After this period, any unutilized inventory can be released to other customers. Retailers can track these forecast reservations, including details such as the initial forecasted quantity, the amount consumed through call-off orders, the remaining unconsumed quantity, and the reservation’s end date. Here, call-off orders refer to orders placed against forecast reservations. When a call-off is allocated a quantity of x, the consumed quantity of the forecast reservation increases accordingly by x. Forecast reservations are managed under the following statuses: Active: The forecast reservation is allocated a certain quantity, and its end date is in the future. Partially Consumed: A call-off order has been created and allocated, but the consumed quantity is less than the allocated quantity. Consumed: The consumed quantity meets or exceeds the allocated quantity. Expired: The reservation’s expiration date has passed. Canceled: The forecast reservation has been canceled. Forecast Reservations A forecast reservation (demand) must be created for a specific customer. Inventory is reserved based on availability at the time of forecast reservation creation. If there is insufficient inventory, the forecast quantity will equal the allocated quantity, and any shortfall will not be allocated later, even if there is an inventory rise. Any unconsumed inventory will be released to the common pool after the forecast reservation’s end date. A retailer can cancel a forecast reservation at any time before its expiration. Upon cancelation, any unconsumed inventory will be returned to the free pool. A retailer can update only the quantity and end date of a forecast reservation, but once a calloff order is created against the demand, the quantity can not be updated. If allocated inventory is reduced due to an inventory drop, it will not be replenished later, even if inventory levels rise. Inventory can be reallocated to a higher-priority order or forecast reservation, potentially reducing the allocation of a lower-priority forecast reservation during continuous allocation. Forecast Reservation and Call Off Order Strategy A B2B customer account can be configured with a "Forecast Reservation and Call Off Order Strategy" as mentioned below using the B2B Accounts UI. Null : Indicates it's a normal order and will be allocated from the general available inventory pool. Consider Only Forecast Reservations: Indicates the customer's call-off order should consume inventory only from their forecast reservations, not from the available inventory (free pool) Consider Only Available Inventory: Indicates the customer's call-off order should consume inventory only from the general available inventory pool. Consider Forecast Reservations and Available Inventory: Indicates the customer's call-off order allocation should consume inventory from their forecast reservation and then from the general available inventory pool. Call-off Order Allocation A call-off order can be fulfilled from any optimal location within the network. However, once allocation is complete, the associated forecast reservations (demands) will be updated to reflect the consumed quantity. The demands included in the call-off order may or may not belong to the Customer ID specified in the order. In this case, the system considers only the demands explicitly provided in the order, ignoring any active demands associated with the customer. A call-off order can be associated with a ranked list of demands. Consumption will occur in order of the demand rankings—for example, Rank 1 demand will be consumed first, followed by Rank 2, and so on. If demand ranking is not passed in the call-off order, consumption of demand can happen randomly. If a call-off order is linked with a Customer ID and has no associated demands, the system will identify the customer's active demands and consume from them randomly. If the customer ID in the call-off order belongs to a child customer, the system will first consume from the child customer’s demands. Once those are exhausted, it will consider the parent customer’s demands—provided the parent is configured to share the demand with the child. The requested delivery date of a call-off order can extend beyond the end date of the forecast reservation. If a call-off order is allocated and subsequently canceled, the consumed quantity will be restored to the corresponding forecast reservation. A single call-off order can be linked to multiple forecast reservations (demands). If a call-off order is created against a canceled demand, it will be fulfilled from the free pool, depending on inventory availability. How to Create a Demand Configuration A demand config can be imported or created from the Forecast Reservation UI. Demand Config APIURL: /order/api/order/demandConfig/save { "DemandConfigId": "123", "DefaultStrategyName":"Ecom Orders Config", "DefaultDemandTypeId":"Allocation", "DefaultShippingMethodId":"Ground", "IsCallOfPriorityOverOrder":true } How to Create a Forecast Reservation for a Customer A forecast reservation can be imported. Here, forecast reservation refers to demand. Create Forecast Reservation APIURL: /order/api/order/demand/save { "DemandId": "Demand123", "DemandCategory": "Forecast", "CustomerId": "John01", "ExpirationDate": "2025-03-13T10:05:37.11", "StrategyName": "Ecom Orders Config", "ShipToAddress": { "Address1": "14131 Midway Road", "Address2": "", "City": "Addison", "Country": "US", "Email": "john@manh.com", "FirstName": "John", "LastName": "Sam", "Phone": "423-306-1973", "PostalCode": "30039", "State": "TX" }, "ShipFromLocationId": "", "DemandDetail": [ { "DemandDetailId": "L1", "ItemId": "Tops-19691-Blue-XS", "Quantity": 100 }, { "DemandDetailId": "L2", "ItemId": "Tops-19691-White-M", "Quantity": 200 } ] } How a Parent Customer can Share it's Forecast Reservation with his Child Customer Create a parent customer using the following API Create parent customer {{url}}/customer/api/customer/customer/save { "CustomerId": "Walmart", "ParentCustomerId": "", "CustomerCategory": "B2B", "CustomerType": "Gold", "CustomerHolidays": [], "AnniversaryDate": null, "Email": "Walmart.smith@manh-dev.com", "CustomerContact": [], "Gender": "Male", "CustomerAccountInfo": null, "VirtualAssistant": [], "CustomerPreferences": null, "TaxExemptId": null, "PurgeDate": null, "WorkingDays": null, "Status": { "StatusId": "Gold" }, "CalendarConfigId": "US-Sourth", "BusinessTaxId": null, "CustomerPaymentMethod": [], "TimeZone": "America/New_York", "FulfillmentPreferences": null, "FulfillmentInstruction": [], "ActivationHistory": [], "ExternalLastUpdatedDate": null, "LastName": "Ltd", "CustomerAddress": [ { "ShiftStartTime": null, "Address": { "FirstName": "John", "LastName": "Smith", "Address1": null, "Address2": null, "Address3": null, "City": null, "State": null, "PostalCode": null, "County": null, "Country": null, "Phone": "(678)587-9020", "Email": null }, "CalendarConfigId": "Calendar-East", "CustomerAddressHolidays": [], "AddressName": "Denver", "UpdatedBy": "admin@ecomorg.com", "AddressTypeId": "Business-1", "IsPreferred": false, "TimeZone": "America/Denver", "IsAddressVerified": false, "AddressId": "Address-001", "WorkingDays": null, "ShiftEndTime": null } ], "LoyaltyNumber": null, "IsActive": true, "TaxId": null, "CustomerCreationLocation": null, "CustomerMarketingGroup": [], "ExternalCreatedDate": null, "Phone": "(678) 597-7070", "CustomerCommPref": [], "EmployeeId": null, "Notes": null, "ShiftEndTime": null, "ShiftStartTime": null, "FirstName": "John-Walmart", "SocialAccount": [], "CustomerExtension1": [], "CustomerAlternateId": [], "CustomerAttribute": [] } Create a child customer linked to the parent customer using the following API Create child customer{ "CustomerId": "Walmart-East", "ParentCustomerId": "Walmart", "CustomerCategory": "B2B", "CustomerType": "Gold", "CustomerHolidays": [], "AnniversaryDate": null, "Email": "Walmart.smith@manh-dev.com", "CustomerContact": [], "Gender": "Male", "CustomerAccountInfo": null, "VirtualAssistant": [], "CustomerPreferences": null, "TaxExemptId": null, "PurgeDate": null, "WorkingDays": null, "Status": { "StatusId": "Gold" }, "CalendarConfigId": "US-Sourth", "BusinessTaxId": null, "CustomerPaymentMethod": [], "TimeZone": "America/New_York", "FulfillmentPreferences": null, "FulfillmentInstruction": [], "ActivationHistory": [], "ExternalLastUpdatedDate": null, "LastName": "Ltd", "CustomerAddress": [ { "ShiftStartTime": null, "Address": { "FirstName": "John", "LastName": "Smith", "Address1": null, "Address2": null, "Address3": null, "City": null, "State": null, "PostalCode": null, "County": null, "Country": null, "Phone": "(678)587-9020", "Email": null }, "CalendarConfigId": "Calendar-East", "CustomerAddressHolidays": [], "AddressName": "Denver", "UpdatedBy": "admin@ecomorg.com", "AddressTypeId": "Business-1", "IsPreferred": false, "TimeZone": "America/Denver", "IsAddressVerified": false, "AddressId": "Address-001", "WorkingDays": null, "ShiftEndTime": null } ], "LoyaltyNumber": null, "IsActive": true, "TaxId": null, "CustomerCreationLocation": null, "CustomerMarketingGroup": [], "ExternalCreatedDate": null, "Phone": "(678) 597-7070", "CustomerCommPref": [], "EmployeeId": null, "Notes": null, "ShiftEndTime": null, "ShiftStartTime": null, "FirstName": "John-Walmart", "SocialAccount": [], "CustomerExtension1": [], "CustomerAlternateId": [], "CustomerAttribute": [] } Create a forecast reservation for the parent customer with “IsSharable“ = true. This indicates that the forecast reservation created for the parent can be shared with its child customer. Note: Sharing is limited to one level only (that is, from parent to direct child). Create forecast reservation for parent customer with "IsSharable" as true{{url}}/order/api/order/demand/save { "DemandId": "Demand1209", "DemandCategory": "Forecast", "CustomerId": "Walmart", "ExpirationDate": "2025-04-28T12:00:00.000", "IsSharable":true, "ShipToAddress": { "Address1": "14131 Midway Road", "Address2": "", "City": "Addison", "Country": "US", "Email": "asahu@manh.com", "FirstName": "Jahn", "LastName": "Sahu", "Phone": "423-306-1973", "PostalCode": "30039", "State": "TX" }, "ShipFromLocationId": "", "DemandDetail": [ { "DemandDetailId": "L1", "ItemId": "ItemJ", "Quantity": 80 } ] } Example 1: Availability when only the parent customer has a forecast reservation Parent Customer: Walmart Child Customer: Walmart-East Availability of inventory with “IsSharable“ = false. Item Supply Qty Forecast Reservation Availability Qty (Walmart) Availability Qty (WalmartEast) Comment ItemA 100 Walmart: 40 WalmartEast: 0 Total: 100 Forecast Reservation: 40 Total: 60 Forecast Reservation: 0 Walmart’s forecast reservation is not shared with its child customers. Availability of inventory with “IsSharable“ = true. Item Supply Qty Forecast Reservation Availability Qty (Walmart) Availability Qty (WalmartEast) Comment ItemA 100 Walmart: 40 WalmartEast: 0 Total: 100 Forecast Reservation: 40 Total: 100 Forecast Reservation: 40 Walmart’s forecast reservation is shared with its child customers. Example 2: (Availability when both parent and child customers have forecast reservations). Parent Customer: Walmart Child Customer: Walmart-East Availability of inventory with “IsSharable“ = false. Item Supply Qty Forecast Reservation Availability Qty (Walmart) Availability Qty (WalmartEast) Comment ItemA 100 Walmart: 40 WalmartEast: 20 Total: 80 Forecast Reservation: 40 Total: 60 Forecast Reservation: 20 Walmart’s forecast reservation is not shared with its child customers. Availability of inventory with "IsSharable" = true Item Supply Qty Forecast Reservation Availability Qty (Walmart) Availability Qty (WalmartEast) Comment ItemA 100 Walmart: 40 WalmartEast: 20 Total: 80 Forecast Reservation: 40 Total: 100 Forecast Reservation: 60 Walmart’s forecast reservation is shared with its child customers. Note: When a call-off order is bridged for a child customer, the system will start consuming from the child’s forecast reservation first and then from its parent’s forecast reservation if the parent shares its forecast reservation with the child. The system will not validate the demands (forecast reservations) passed in the call-off order for the corresponding customer or not (if customerId is passed in the calloff order). The system will honor the ranking of the demands passed in the call-off order during allocation. If the ranking is not passed, consumption of demands can happen randomly. Similarly, in case of any cancellation of call-off orders, the forecast reservations will revert to forecast reservations based on the ranking. If a call-off order is bridged with CustomerId with no demandInfo, the system will automatically link its eligible forecast reservations to the call-off order. How to Create a Call-off order A retailer can consume from pre-order demands (forecast reservation) by bridging call-off orders associated with demands. A call-off order can be created through import or from B2B account UI. A regular order can be treated as a call-off order when a demand is associated with it. This demand can be specified at two levels: Header Level: When the demand is provided at the order header, it applies to all order lines within that order and consumed based on the order line allocations. Line Level: When a demand or a list of demands are specified at individual order lines, upon allocation of these order lines, it consumes only from the specified demands and overrides the demands present at the header level. If the forecast demands (or reservations) include a ranking, this ranking determines the priority of consumption during allocation. In such cases, when the system allocates inventory to a call-off order, it will consume the forecast reservations in the order of their ranking—starting with the highest-priority demand first. If ranking is not specified in the demand info, the system will consume randomly from the specified demands. "OrderDemandInfo": [ { "DemandId": "Demand123" "DemandRank": "1" }, { "DemandId": "Demand456" "DemandRank": "2" } ] 3. An order line for an order can be overridden with a specific forecast reservation (demand). "OrderlineDemandInfo": [ { "DemandId": "Demand-111" "DemandRank": "1" }, { "DemandId": "Demand-222" "DemandRank": "2" } ] 3. A B2B call-off order can also be imported using only the CustomerId, without specifying any demandInfo at the order or order line level. During allocation, the system will automatically associate the order with the appropriate forecast demands of the customer, based on the configured Forecast Reservation and Call-Off Order Strategy. How to Configure Forecast Reservation And Call Off Order Strategy This feature enables the retailer to configure Forecast Reservation and Call Off Order Strategy for B2B account customers. To configure forecast reservation and call off order strategy, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Master Data > Manage Customer > B2B Accounts. Select an existing B2B account and click Details. On the B2B Account Details page, click Preferences to open the Preferences tab. Click the three-dot icon and click Edit. In the Forecast Reservation And Call Off Order Strategy drop-down, select the required options from the following: Consider Forecast Reservations and Available Inventory: Indicates the customer's call-off order allocation should consume inventory from their forecast reservation and then from the general available inventory pool. Consider Only Available Inventory: Indicates the customer's call-off order should consume inventory only from the general available inventory pool. Consider Only Forecast Reservations: Indicates the customer's call-off order should consume inventory only from their forecast reservations, and not from the available inventory (free pool) If no option is selected, it indicates that it's a normal order and will be allocated from the general available inventory pool. Prioritization of Call-off Order, Forecast Reservation, and Normal Order A retailer can choose the priority of a call-off order over a normal order and vice versa based on its business needs. This can be configured in the demand config based on the value of the parameter "IsCallOfPriorityOverOrder". If the value is set to true, it indicates that the call-off order is the highest priority, followed by forecast reservation and then followed by normal order. Similarly, if the IsCallOfPriorityOverOrder= false, the normal order is the highest priority over the call-off order followed by forecast reservation. Example: IsCallOfPriorityOverOrder Priority-1 Priority-2 Priority-3 TRUE Calloff order Forecast Reservation (Demand) Normal order FALSE Normal order Calloff order Forecast Reservation (Demand)