# Forecast Exceptions

**Permalink:** forecast-exceptions
**Content Length:** 20,121 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:37:20.865405

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process &amp; Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Demand Forecasting ››Forecast Exceptions &nbsp;Forecast Exceptions Previous&nbsp;I&nbsp;Next OverviewConfigurationsForecast Exceptions Key configurationsKey Forecast ExceptionsDetailed overview on Exclusion RulesRelated Articles Overview The overall goal of&nbsp;forecast exceptions is to increase forecast accuracy.&nbsp; For most retailers and wholesalers, managing exceptions to all kinds is a time-consuming and costly task, but critical to maintaining optimal inventory levels. If demand exceptions are not properly managed, accuracy suffers at the store level and forces the merchant to either trade off service and revenue or carry excess stock to make up for inaccurate forecasts at the point of consumption. Advanced Exception Management (AEM) addresses the issues around forecast exception management from three primary perspectives: Presenting you with demand exceptions that make business sense by providing better statistical filters and flexible business rules. The filters can filter and display only those exceptions that are important and which may need corrective action. Providing advanced science that enables the system to automatically detect and self-correct root causes. Providing additional UI functionality that allows you to sift through exceptions, determine and execute the corrective action more quickly. Configurations Forecast Exceptions Key configurations The first step in the exception management process uses basic outlier logic that identifies demand exceptions, including unusually high demand spikes, unusually low demand spikes, trending up, and trending down. Historically, one of the problems associated with demand exception maintenance is that the thresholds that generated these exceptions were too general in nature. To address this and other issues, the following steps are included in the advanced exception management process: You can now set exclusion rules specific to your business, thus enabling you to eliminate exception notifications that would never make business sense to review. Better statistical filters are provided that enable the system to track consecutive or non-consecutive persistency like (x) out of (y) demand exceptions. For example, a similar type of exception is noticed in a particular item location (x) time in a row, or (x) out of (y) times. Additionally, this enables the system to recognize if a product is the same type of exception across locations in consecutive or non-consecutive occurrences. Proactive adjustment of components of the forecast model or conditional forecast readjustment when certain patterns become apparent through statistical filters. The system can conditionally do additional analysis and filtering in the application filter phase. This allows you to set parameters for logic that tests the effect the revised forecast has on the theoretical order-up-to-level for replenishment. For example, even though a Forecast Entity has an exception generated based on the Exception Policy settings, if the forecast does not have any major impact on the order quantity in the applications using this forecast, the user may not want to review the exception for such a Forecast Entity. In the LifeCycle Policy Configuration, CreateForecastException flag has to be set as &#39;true&#39;. &nbsp; Key Forecast Exceptions Unusual High Demand - (Demand Spike.) Demand for the Product Location is greater than the demand forecast by a multiple of standard deviations greater than the Unusual High Demand setting. This indicates unusually high demand. It is often noticed that this exception could be a result of a demand entry error. Unusual Low Demand - Demand for the Product Location is less than the demand forecast by a multiple of standard deviations greater than the Unusual High Demand setting. This indicates unusually low demand. Demand Trending Down&nbsp;- Demand for a Product Location decreases over time, and the forecast cannot keep up with the decreasing demand. May indicate the ending of a trend or a seasonal demand pattern. Demand Trending Up - Demand for a Product Location increases over time, and the forecast cannot keep up with the increasing demand. May indicates the beginning of a trend or a seasonal pattern. Persistence Exception- An Unusual High Demand or an Unusual Low Demand exception appears in several consecutive periods or non-consecutive periods (for example, 3 out of 5, configured using the X out of Y). Demand Frequency Exception - These exceptions are generated when the actual recent demand occurrences are trending significantly lower or higher in comparison to the Demand Frequency of a Forecast Entity. The two types of Demand Frequency Exceptions are as follows: Demand Frequency Trending Up Demand Frequency Trending Down Unusual Forecast Change Exception - This exception is generated if the average de-seasonalized forecast generated for a period is equal to or more than a specified percent from the last period&rsquo;s average forecast. Detailed overview on Exclusion Rules Exclusion Rules enable you to exclude specified exceptions from being displayed. There are certain products for which, no matter how valid a demand exception might be statistically, it never makes business sense for a person to spend time reviewing. For example: extremely low cost, very low standard deviation, small forecast, certain velocity codes, or combinations of the above. Using Exclusion rules, you can: Create multiple exclusion rules to assign to a forecast exception policy. Select from: Annual Demand Forecast Current Demand Forecast Forecast Standard Deviation Price (average purchase price) Status Product Location Group Velocity When are the forecast exceptions generated? &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Most of the Forecast Exceptions are generated as part of the Forecast Update process based on the forecast exception policy configured in Forecast Policy. New SKU exceptions are created during the Forecast Initiation and get cleared in the Forecast Update process based on the Exception Policy configurations. &nbsp; Demand & Forecast Exception Management Process All the demand and forecast exceptions have to be reviewed before approving the orders/ &nbsp;The demand and forecast exception management process is illustrated in the following figure. &nbsp; &nbsp; Investigate: Ask the following questions when you investigate the demand history: Is the demand legitimate? Is the demand seasonal and no seasonal profile has been applied to the forecast entity? Were lost sales recorded properly? Were promo sales filtered? Was there a data entry error? Do I expect the demand to recur? If there was a one-time customer order, weather-related demand, or other unusual occurrence, will this occur again? If there is concrete knowledge that the demand was not a one-time occurrence, will the increased or decreased demand continue? What if I cannot explain the increase or decrease in demand? Ask the following questions when you investigate the standard deviation: Does the standard deviation look large? Is it because demand history has been recorded improperly? Were promotion quantities not calculated? Is it because the forecast entity is seasonal and there is no seasonal profile? Is it because there has been a significant change in demand (i.e., gained a new customer, lost a key customer, product replaced by another product, etc.)? Ask the following questions when you investigate the seasonal profile: Is the forecast entity seasonal? Does the profile correctly represent the seasonal pattern? &nbsp;Is a different profile needed? &nbsp;Should the seasonal profile be removed if there is no seasonal demand pattern? Should the forecast entity have a seasonal profile based on the demand pattern? Ask the following questions when you investigate the seasonal profile: Is the forecast accurate? Does the calculated forecast represent expected demand for the next period? Do you have concrete knowledge that future demand is going to change? Is the forecast keeping up with demand? Is this a new forecast entity with an inappropriate forecast? &nbsp; Take Action Based on your investigation of the forecast entity, you will take one of the following actions: No action &ndash; Delete the exception. This is the most common action. Add or remove a seasonal profile &ndash; Add a profile to a forecast entity that is seasonal or remove a profile from a forecast entity that is not seasonal. Adjust forecast &ndash; Change the forecast if you know that demand will increase or decrease in the future (for example, a customer account has been added or lost, a competitor enters or leaves the market). Adjust demand history &ndash; Change demand that was recorded incorrectly (for example, promotional sales were not filtered, lost sales were not accounted for) or change demand that is not expected to recur. Change the demand frequency &ndash; Change the demand frequency if you know the occurrences of demand will increase or decrease in the future (for example, gaining or losing a customer or a sudden change in the market). &nbsp; Demand History Actions &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Is the Demand Legitimate? Yes No action is required. The demand is related to seasonality and no seasonal profile has been applied to the forecast entity. Add seasonal profile. Promos sales were not filtered. Change History Lost sales were not recorded properly. Change History &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;Do I expect the demand to recur? There was one time customer order, weather related demand or an occurrence that you did not expect to happen.&nbsp; Change History The demand was not a one-time occurrence and the increased or decreased demand will continue. Change Smoothing Policy The increase or decrease in demand cannot be explained. Monitor Forecast Entity &nbsp; Standard Deviation Actions &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Does the Standard Deviation Look Large? It is large because the demand for the forecast entity is highly unpredictable. No action was needed. It is large because the demand history has been recorded improperly. Change History It is large because the forecast entity is seasonal and there is no seasonal profile. Add Seasonal Profile &nbsp; Seasonal Profile Actions &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Is the forecast entity seasonal? The forecast is seasonal, and the profile represents the seasonal pattern. No action is needed. The forecast is seasonal, and the profile does not represent the seasonal pattern. Add new seasonal profile The forecast entity has a seasonal profile but no seasonal pattern. Remove seasonal profile The forecast entity has a seasonal pattern that recurs year after year and there is no profile. Add seasonal profile &nbsp; Forecast&nbsp; Actions &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Is the forecast accurate? Yes No action is needed. Demand is trending, and the forecast is not keeping up. Change smoothing policy. The forecast entity is new. Change forecast. Demand will change in the future. Change smoothing policy. The calculated forecast accurately represents the expected demand for the next period. No action is needed. &nbsp; Related Articles Forecast Assignment CriteriaNew Item Location Auto-AssociatonDay of Week ProfileExclusions RulesForecast SummaryForecast UpdateLost Sales for Forecasting Seasonal ProfilingAggregated Seasonal Profile Future Forecast AdjustmentsDemand Classification &amp; CleansingManual Forecast ChangeForecast InitializationDemand ForecastingForecast Analysis &nbsp;