# Packing Process

**Permalink:** fulfillment-packing-process
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Store/Process & Configuration Guides/Store Inventory & Fulfillment/Store Order Fulfillment/Packing/Process
**Content Length:** 90,018 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:04:19.281146

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Store››Process & Configuration Guides››Store Inventory & Fulfillment››Store Order Fulfillment››Packing ››Packing Process Packing Process Select Fulfillment (No Team-Based Picking)Selection MethodsBy FulfillmentBy Scanning an ItemSelect from Eligible Pick Task GroupsBy Pick Task Group and Item/BarcodeBy Pick Task Group and SlotsSelect Fulfillment (Team-Based Picking)Selection MethodsEnter Staging LocationStaging Location(s) Associated with the OrderInitiate PackingPackingIntermediate UpdatesResume on Another Device Finish Package UpdatesExceptionsResume PackingPacking Shortages Cancel PackingCancel Pack Task GroupCancel PackageUpdate Package to Change Shipping OptionIdle Pack TasksOther FunctionalityPacking Summary by PicklistRFID - PackingExceptionsUpdatesCross-OrganizationStore CubingKey TerminologyWeight/Volume CubingDimensional CubingShip ReadyHow it WorksSample ImplementationsCubing Recommendation AnalysisExceptionsFulfillment Outbound EventsServices ServiceService End Point Packing occurs after picking for shipment orders (for pickup orders, see the Confirm Pickup guide.) During this process, one or more package records are created, and the fulfillment line and fulfillment records are updated. Exceptions such as item shortages and cancelations are handled. Once the fulfillment is packed, a shipping collate is printed for the package. The collate includes the packing slip, shipping label and return label (if enabled) when thermal printing is not in effect. However, if thermal printing is enabled, the collated document comprises only the packing slip while the shipping and return labels (if enabled) are separately and silently printed using the configured thermal printer. Refer to the Printing guide for additional information. Packing functionality is primarily handled by the Fulfillment component. A user must first obtain an eligible fulfillment to pack to begin the packing process, which is discussed in the Select Fulfillment sections below. Fulfillment selection differs based on whether team-based picking was used or not. Refer to the Picking process guide for additional information. To know more on the  packing activity during offline mode, please refer to the Store Offline Support page. Select Fulfillment (No Team-Based Picking) If the sorting process is not applicable, then fulfillment should be packed once picking is completed. Selecting a fulfillment for packing can be obtained by one of three ways: By fulfillment By scanning an item Select from eligible pick task groups By pick task group and item/barcode By pick task group and slots Selection Methods By Fulfillment In some scenarios, an associate may wish to pack a particular fulfillment (i.e., a particular order may be expedited due to a customer service request.) In such scenarios, a store user inputs an order number (i.e.., fulfillmentId attribute) to start the packing process. The fulfillment is validated to check if it is eligible for packing or not. The Get Fulfillment By Fulfillment ID service is called to validate and return the fulfillment details for packing based on the following criteria: - The fulfillment has at least one line that is in "Picked" status. The fulfillment does not have a package in "In-Packing" status. If the fulfillment meets the above criteria, then the fulfillment details are returned for packing. If not, an error message is displayed to the user. Note that any fulfillment lines in 'Canceled' status are ignored. Once the fulfillment is validated and returned, the user can begin packing. See Initiate packing. By Scanning an Item Store associates can directly scan an item from a cart which is ready for packing. This eliminates the need to keep a printed picklist with the cart/product when multiple carts are reading for packing. To enable the pack by item feature, refer to the Packing configuration guide. Once the associate scans the item, If the scanned item belongs to only one fulfillment that is ready to be packed, that fulfillment is automatically selected for the associate to pack. If the scanned item belongs to multiple fulfillments but only picklist, the highest priority fulfillment* is automatically selected for the associate to pack. If the scanned item belongs to fulfillments on multiple picklists, configuration determines whether the highest priority fulfillment* is automatically selected for packing, or if the associate should choose the picklist/fulfillment to pack from a list. If the associate chooses, matching picklists are displayed in ascending completed date/time sequence. If the item exists on multiple fulfillments within the same picklist, those fulfillments are displayed before fulfillments without the item. These fulfillments are sequenced by priority and created date/time sequence, and the top ranking fulfillment is preselected. * If the fulfillment's priority is null, the created date/time is used and the fulfillment with the oldest created date/time is selected. For the scenarios described above, the Get fulfillment by Item ID or Task Group ID service is used to get the fulfillment details. The picklist summary UI that displays after each fulfillment is packed also displays the list of remaining items to pack. Select from Eligible Pick Task Groups A store associate may wish to initiate the packing process by selecting from a list of eligible pick task groups at a store location. The eligible pick task groups are returned by service The List Task Groups Eligible for Packing. A pick task group is considered eligible for packing if it meets the following conditions: The status of the task group is "Completed". The task group contains at least one task of type "Pick". At least one of the fulfillments associated with the pick task detail within the task group/task is in status "Picked". Note: Any fulfillment lines associated with the task group/task are in status "Canceled" are excluded. The response contains a list of pick task groups (including tasks and pick task details) that are eligible for packing. The list is sequenced by ascending creation date (oldest first.) If no appropriate pick task group is found, then an error will be sent accordingly. By Pick Task Group and Item/Barcode One of the most used methods to begin packing is for an associate to input an item (itemID or bar code) and pick task group (taskGroupID) from a picklist once it is complete. The Get Fulfillment by Task Group and Item service is called to identify and return the highest priority fulfillment for the item and pick task. A list of fulfilments that are eligible for packing for the pick task group and item is identified based on the following criteria: The fulfillment is in "Picked" status. The fulfillment does not have a package in "In-Packing" status. If multiple fulfillments match the above criteria, they are sequenced based on priority so that the highest priority fulfillment can be returned. Any fulfillment with a priority of "Unprioritized" is given the lowest priority. If multiple fulfillments have the same priority value, they are sequenced by ascending creation date and time (oldest to the newest.) Based on the sequencing, the fulfillment with the highest priority is then selected and returned. Note: If no eligible fulfillment is found for the item and pick task group, an error is returned. If a fulfillment is returned, it is now available for the user to pack. See Initiate packing. The following diagram outlines the process to select a fulfillment by task group and item. The following example illustrates how a fulfillment is selected based on the input pick task group and item. An Example Scenario: Multiple fulfillments are eligible on a picklist for packing with same priority. User inputs Item2 Fulfillment Item Status Priority Creation Fulfillment1 Item2 Packed 1 01/01/2017 Fulfillment2 Item2 Picked 2 01/5/2017 Fulfillment3 Item2 Picked 2 01/12/2017 Fulfillment4; Has a package in "In-Packing" status Item2 Picked 1 01/2/2017 Result: Fulfilment2 is selected and returned. Fulfillment Eligible? Explanation Fulfillment1 Not eligible Not in an appropriate status for packing Fulfillment2 Eligible This is found eligible for packing based on status, has no package in "In-Packing" status, and highest priority. Since this has the oldest creation date, it is selected. Fulfillment3 Eligible This is found eligible for packing based on status, has no package in "In-Packing" status, and has highest priority. But since other fulfilmlents exist with an older creation date, it is not selected. Fulfillment4 Not eligible This is in a correct status, but it has a package in "In-Packing" status which indicates another user is working on it By Pick Task Group and Slots When items are picked to slots, packers can initiate packing by selecting the slots. The Retrieve Task Group Summary service provides the list of valid slots that need to be packed. On selecting a slot, the respective fulfillment is retrieved for packing. Select Fulfillment (Team-Based Picking) If team-based picking is used and sorting occurs, orders are eligible for packing based on following conditions: The status of the order is "Sorted". A package does not exist in "In-Packing" status for the order. Selection Methods Enter Staging Location The associate enters a staging location to retrieve the eligible order(s) placed at the location during sorting process. The associate then selects an order to initiate packing. Staging Location(s) Associated with the Order The associate is presented with the list of eligible orders and associated staging locations. The orders are sequenced based on priority and created date and time. Within each order, locations are sorted in alphabetical sequence. Once the user chooses one of the fulfillments to pack using either of the methods mentioned above, the associate can begin packing. See Initiate packing. Initiate Packing As soon as a fulfillment is selected from any of the methods above, the user will then input the item to pack to initiate packing for the fulfillment. The initiate packing process does the following without any interaction by the user. This is performed using the Initiate Packing service request. Generates next-up numbers for the pack task group and package (if applicable.) If a next-up number is not used as the package identifier (meaning that the package identifier is specified in the Initiate Packing request), the value provided must be unique within the organization. Creates the task group and a single initial task with task type as "Pack" in the background and assigns to the user. Creates a package in status "In-Packing". Note that a record is created in the package header only. Package details will be created once the package is built. Once a user starts packing a fulfillment, the same user must complete the packing for that fulfillment. If sorting is applicable then the store associate can view staging locations at the order level and item level during packing, which helps to identify the exact location of the items to pack. During this process, statuses are updated as follows: Entity Input Status Output Status Package N/a In-Packing Fulfillment Line Picked Picked Fulfillment Picked Picked Packing Once the initiate packing updates are performed, the user begins building packages for the fulfillment. Package type must be specified by the associate when packing. The package type can either be defaulted to the associate or suppressed based on a configuration. Suppressing the default value can be used to prevent the associate from selecting the defaulted value out of convenience. Refer to the Packing Configuration guide for details. Weight of the package is automatically calculated from the weight defined in the Item master. If Item weight is not configured in the item master, the associate must enter a weight before finishing the package. The packaging weight (empty box weight) is not considered for populating the weight of the package automatically. Weight UOM is fetched from the item master. If weight UOM is not configured in the item master, then fetched from the fulfillment line of the item being packed. Weight UOM is displayed as soon as an item is scanned. Note: If weight UOM is not set for the item, then the submit package will be failed. Fulfillment instructions are displayed as 'InstructionSubTyp-Instruction text' If an associate attempts to close a package while there are still remaining units to pack for the order, a warning pop-up can be displayed to the user. See the Configuration guide for more details. Intermediate Updates As associates pack items, each unit packed (i.e., unit scan or units added action) is synced from the device to save work if the user must pause the packing activity, or a device failure occurs. This is achieved by the Submit Pack service with the isSuspendPacking attribute set to true. Because the progress is saved, the packing activity can be resumed later on the same device or a different device (see Resume on Another Device.) Intermediate updates update the package quantity, but updates are not performed to the fulfillment until packing is completed. Resume on Another Device Because intermediate updates are saved, if an associate must resume packing for a partially completed fulfillment on another device (due to the original device now in use by another associate, or device failure.), the progress made on the original device is available on the new device until the last saved intermediate update. Note: To resume work on another device, the same user and store must be used. Finish Package Updates When the package is built, the associate submits the package. This invokes the Pack service with the isSuspendPacking flag set to false. Quantity and status updates are performed to the package, fulfillment line and fulfillment. For each fulfillment line, if the sum of packed and short quantity is less than order quantity, this indicates that the fulfillment line is still being packed. Otherwise, if the sum of packed and short quantity equals the order quantity, the line is considered packed. When all fulfillment lines are packed, then the fulfillment is considered as packed. Once packing is finished for an order, the current activity will be marked as complete regardless if the user clicks the Finish button on the Finish Order UI or navigates to another screen from the main menu. To determine the fulfillment header status, the minimum and maximum status of the fulfillment are updated based on the status of the fulfillment lines. During packing, fulfillment and package statuses are updated as follows: Entity Current Status Revised Status Condition Package In-Packing Built Package is packed Fulfillment Line Picked In-Packing When first package for the line is built Sorted In-Packing Applicable if store uses sorting of fulfillment In-Packing Packed When packages are created for the entire picked quantity after adjusting shortages during packing, if any i.e. when (packed quantity +cancelled quantity = order quantity) Fulfillment Min status of fulfillment line: Picked or In-Packing Max status of fulfillment line: In-Packing or Packed Partially Packed When at least one line is packed Min status of fulfillment line: Sorted or In-Packing Max status of fulfillment line: In-Packing or Packed Partially Packed Applicable if store uses sorting of fulfillment Min status of fulfillment line: Packed Max status of fulfillment line: Packed Packed When all lines are packed Note: Canceled fulfilment lines are ignored for status determination. For Example: Packing Process Fulfillment Line Item Quantity Fulfillment1 1 Item1 10 units Fulfillment1 2 Item2 20 units User can create multiple packages for these items. When Fulfillment1 and Item1 are selected for packing, package in "In-Packing" status is created. User will then continue packing items in the package until it is "Built". Let's say Package P1 is built as follows Package Items Quantity P1 Item1 5 units P1 Item2 10 units User will then submit P1 and request that the next package is internally sent as fulfillment is not fully packed yet. User then packs next package as mentioned below: Package Item Quantity P2 Item1 5 units P2 Item2 10 units Quantity is fully packed for Fulfillment1 now. Fulfillment request is sent to the server with P1 and P2.  Since the order quantities are fully packed, fulfillment line packed quantity and status are updated accordingly. For Example: Status Updates FulfillmentA is currently being packed with line details below: Fulfillment Fulfillment Line Order Quantity Picked Quantity Packed Quantity Short Quantity Status FulfillmentA 1 5 units 4 units 4 units 1 unit Packed FulfillmentA 2 15 units 15 units 0 0 Picked FulfillmentA 3 10 units 10 units 5 units 0 In-Packing The status of Fulfillment A is updated as follows based on the fulfilment lines: Fulfillment min status Fulfillment max status Fulfillment Status Line 2 status = "Picked" Line 1 status = "Packed" Partially Packed Package Status Status code Action In-Packing 1000.000 Package is created and packing of the package is in progress Built 2000.000 Package is packed Canceled 9000.000 Package is canceled prior to building it Canceled 9000.000 Package is canceled after it was built Note: For the ship to store (Merge Leg) Orders, the default receipt type of the package will be "Package". A user exit has been given to set the other receipt types "Item" or "Load". The delivery type of the package is Customer Order. Exceptions Resume Packing When an associate experiences an interruption while packing a fulfillment that results in having to log into the app again (either on the same device or a different device), the Resume Packing service is used to match the partially completed fulfillment and package so that the user can resume packing. The request is sent to the userId and locationId. If a fulfillment is matched, the response provides the fulfillment and the package the user was working on. Once the fulfillment is returned, the user can continue packing. Note: If a matching fulfillment is not found for the user and location, an error message is returned. Packing Shortages If a store associate is unable to fulfil a line at the time of packing, an item shortage is reported. The same Pack service that reports built packages (see Packing) also reports shortage quantity. The short quantity during packing is reported at the fulfillment line level. Note that shortages can also be reported at the time of picking. If a shortage is reported during picking, it is not reported again at packing. Only deviations from picked quantity are considered as packing shortages. Fulfillment line shorts entity stores the information of how many units are shorted during picking and packing. Refer to the Picking guide for additional information. If shorted unit(s) are later located before the fulfillment is completely packed, the user can pack those units and reduce the shorted quantity. In this case with intermediate updates, the short quantity of the latest Pack request will be honored. If an entire fulfillment line is shorted, the fulfilment line is updated to “Canceled” status. An Example Consider the following example of FulfilmentA in which 15 units of Item1 are ordered: Fulfillment Item Order Quantity FulfillmentA Item1 15 units The store user creates package P1 and packs 10 units of Item1: Package Item Packed Quantity P1 Item1 10 units The user does not find the remaining quantity of Item1 and reports a fulfilment line level shortage of 5 units Fulfillment Line Item Short Quantity Line1 Item1 5 units The store user then creates the next package, P3, and packs 20 units of Item2. At that time, the user also finds 2 additional units of Item1. The user packs 2 units of Item1 in Package P3. Package Item Packed Quantity P3 Item1 2 P3 Item2 20 The store user will send 3 units of short quantity. Once package P3 is finished, the shortage of 3 units of Item1 will be reported for fulfillment line 1. Fulfillment Line Item Short Quantity Line1 Item1 3 The process of reporting and returning short quantities continues until the packing is finished for the fulfillment. Once the packing is complete for the fulfillment, the short quantity of 3 units for fulfillment line 1 is updated as a fulfillment line short. Cancel Packing A user may wish to undo packing process for a fulfilment or package due to reasons such as damage to the package. Once packing is canceled, fulfillment can be restarted later, if desired. Once the fulfillment is fully packed, it cannot be canceled. To cancel a fully packed fulfillment, first void all packages that are in the packed state, then proceed with the cancelation of fulfillment. Cancel pack task group - This option is used to cancel the pack task group (packing activity) for an entire fulfillment. A pack task group can be canceled until the time it is completed. Cancel package - This option is used to cancel one or more packages within a fulfillment. Cancel Pack Task Group Canceling a pack task group cancels all incomplete pack tasks and packages for the fulfillment. When a user cancels a pack task group, a Cancel Task Group service request is sent with the fulfillmentId. Pack tasks can be canceled until they are completed. If there are packages in shipped status, the packing process cannot be cancelled. This can happen only when the carrier tracking is turned on. See Shipping Configuration guide for more information. If a pack task group must be canceled after it is already completed, individual cancel package requests must be sent instead (see Cancel Package section). Cancel Package The cancel package feature cancels packing progress for one or more packages. Packing for a package can be canceled until the package is shipped. If a package which is already built is canceled, the packed quantity of the fulfillment line is reduced by the package quantity, and the short quantity is updated accordingly. If the carton is in "In Packing" status, the incomplete pack task is also canceled. The Cancel List of Packages service is used to communicate package cancelations and contains the fulfillmentId as well as one or more packageId values. The Cancel List of Packages service is also used internally to perform a Cancel Task Group request for all packages on the pack task. Update Package to Change Shipping Option A store user with the appropriate permission can modify shipping options during the packing process. Please refer to the "Update Package" section mentioned in the Shipping Process guide. Idle Pack Tasks If packing has begun but the pack task has not seen any progress beyond a configured amount of time, the task is considered idle. Idle tasks can be displayed in the Store Exceptions window to notify the store manager who based on permissions can link to the Task Monitoring UI to reassign the task. Refer to the configuration guide and the Task Monitoring process guide for more details. Other Functionality Packing Summary by Picklist This feature provides packing progress for a given picklist along with fulfillment summary information. This information can help associates determine the remaining packing work needed for a picklist. This information is available to associates at any time during the packing process. The Retrieve Task Group Summary service is used to request this information and returns the following: Picked by Completed on (date and time) Total picked units across all fulfillments Fulfillments picked Fulfillments packed Fulfillments with packing in progress Fulfillment Details List of unpacked fulfillments and total number of picked units for each one. Slot details List of unpacked slots along with fulfillment and total number of units. This information is available only when items are picked to slot. Both Fulfillment Details and Slot Details contains the same information. While slot details are populated only when details are available, Fulfillment details are always available in the response. Note: A pick task group can contain multiple fulfillments, unlike packing where a pack task group corresponds to one fulfillment. See the Picking guide for additional information. RFID - Packing Store associates can pack customer shipment orders using Radio Frequency Identification (RFID). When the RFID packing business configuration is enabled, store associates can use a handheld RFID reader to read the unit level RFID tags which are being packed in the package in lieu of scanning the item barcodes. The Store application decodes the GTIN-14 from the unit-level tag to validate that the correct item(s) are being packed. Refer to the Store RFID guide for additional information. The base default reader range for packing is set to "Short" to limit the handheld reader from picking up RFID tags that are destined for other fulfillments or packages. The following packing fulfillment selection methods are supported: Picking interstitial Select picklist Pack by item Pack by order Exceptions During packing, store associates cannot modify the packages to remove item units from the package, and they also can not manually increase or decrease the item's quantity from the item details. If a store associate cancels packing of a package, the status of any already packed units reverts from "Reserved" back to "Available". See Updates section below for further details. If a store associate is unable to read the unit-level tag and an EPC or SGTIN barcode is present, they can scan that barcode to perform packing. Similar to when a tag is read, the GTIN-14 value is decoded to validate that the correct item(s) are being packed. The Store application does not validate the status of the unit (EPC) before packing. For example, if a tag that is read happens to be in the reserved or departed status, the packing will be performed without showing an error to the store associate. Updates When the store associate submits the package, the status of the unit inventory record(s) are updated from "Available" to "Reserved". Once the packages are shipped, the unit inventory status is updated from "Reserved" to "Departed" for ship to home fulfillments or "Inbound" for ship to store fulfillments. Cross-Organization If a ship to store order is shipped from a store in one organization to a store in another organization, the unit inventory status is updated to "Inbound" for the destination store. Refer to the Cross-organization fulfillment process guide for additional information. Store Cubing Cubing recommends the packages and package types that the items of an order should be packed into. This can reduce shipping costs as well as labor costs by removing a decision for associates. During packing, a list of package(s), their package type and the items to pack in the package are displayed to the user. Using this UI, associates can gather the packing materials they will need for the order prior to starting the packing process. For example, an order with 5 items that is cubed into 4 packages would be presented to the associate as follows. Packages are listed to the store associate in descending quantity sequence. Package 1 - Large box (Quantity 4) Item A - 2 units Item B - 2 units Package 2 - Medium box (Quantity 3) Item B - 3 units Package 3 - Small box (Quantity 2) Item C - 1 unit Item D - 1 unit Package 4 - Ship ready (Quantity 1) Item E - 1 unit Similar to non-cubed packing, once the associate begins packing a package, they are instructed to pack the remaining items in that package, close it, and move onto the new package. Since the system expects which items should be packed into each package, the system displays an error message if the user attempts to pack a unit that is not yet packed for the order but has been cubed into a different box. Store associates have the option to override the recommended package type, if needed. All four major packing modes are supported - pack from picking interstitial, pack by picklist, pack by item and pack by order. Key Terminology Package Type - Package types define the dimensions and capacity for each package that store associates can use for packing. Package types are configured for any customer who ships packages regardless of whether cubing is used or not. For customers using cubing, a few cubing specific attributes are required. Package Type Group - This ties similar package types together. For example, a retailer may define their package group types as boxes and poly bags. Within each of those package group types, multiple package types would exist. Package type group is used only for customers using cubing. This example shows a retailer who ships five different package types that roll up to two package type groups - Boxes and Poly bags. Package Type Group Package Type Maximum volume Maximum weight Maximum units Length Width Height Boxes Large box 4000 50 999 40 10 10 Boxes Medium box 512 30 999 8 8 8 Boxes Small box 100 15 999 5 5 4 Poly bags Large poly bag 70 5 3 1 1 1 Poly bags Small poly bag 30 3 1 1 1 1 Weight/Volume Cubing Store cubing supports "liquid" cubing based on maximum volume, weight and/or units that are defined for the package type. Retailers can use any or all three of these maximums in the package type definition so that cubing considers the constraint. See the example below where the retailer wishes to constrain cubing based on maximum volume and weight, but not units. The maximum units have been set to a high number that will never be met. Package Type Group Package Type Max Volume Max Weight Max Units Box Large box 1000 50 99999 Box Medium box 512 40 99999 Box Small box 100 20 99999 Note - The unit of measure used for the items' volume and weight must match the unit of measure used in the package type definition. For example, both should be defined in pounds or kilograms, and inches or centimeters. UOM conversion is not supported. Dimensional Cubing In addition to constraints on weight, volume and units, critical dimensions can also be considered. When based on critical dimensions, cubing verifies whether the dimensions of one unit of the item can fit into the dimensions of the package type. For example, a customer order of an umbrella may pass the weight, volume and units constraint for nearly every package type that a retailer ships with, but once the critical dimension of the umbrella's length is taken into account, only one or two package types may be a possible match. Cubing based on critical dimensions is optional and can be implemented for items. To cube based on critical dimensions, populate at least one of the item's critical dimension ie. Critical Dimensions 1 - 3 attributes. In addition to weight and volume check during cubing, Critical Dimension check works on the below logic if any critical dimensions(s) is populated for the item: The item's three critical dimensions and the container's three dimensions are sorted in descending order. The largest critical dimension is compared to the largest value of container dimensions. The middle is compared to the middle, and the smallest is compared to the smallest. If any of the critical dimensions are larger than the corresponding container dimensions, the item fails the critical dimension check and that package type is not recommended. Ship Ready Cubing supports ship ready items which are pre-packaged in a container that is suitable for shipping, and don't need to be packed inside another box. If an item's "Ship Ready" eligible flag is set to true and cubing determines that it should be the only unit in a package, the recommended package type is shown to the user as "Ship Ready" to indicate that the item doesn't require any packing materials and only needs the shipping label applied. The Item dimensions become the package dimensions and are passed to the carrier. For Ship Ready package type to be provided as cubing recommendation, a new Carrier Package Type is required for “Ship Ready” package type, please refer to step 3 of Cubing Config. An item being marked as ship ready doesn't guarantee that it will be shipped alone. It simply means that it is eligible for ship ready. The other items on the order, each item's volume, weight and dimensions and the available package types will influence whether the item is combined into a package with other item(s). If a ship ready item has more than one qty or is a part of fulfillment having other ship ready and/or non ship ready items, then the cubing recommendation flow is followed, and cubing recommendations are provided as per the cubing strategy setup. In this scenario,  'Ship Ready' package type is not suggested as a part of cubing recommendation. Please refer to sample implementation section for more details. Note: Ship ready items still go through the cubing process and if the result of cubing is a package with one unit of a ship ready item, the package becomes a ship ready package (the item's dimensions become the package dimensions.) This means that at least one package type must exist with a large enough weight and volume for each ship ready item to fit into. How it Works This section provides an overview of how cubing is configured and the master data that is required. Refer to the configuration guide for more detailed information. The first objective of cubing is to determine a package type group through configurable rules for each item on the fulfillment. Cubing Strategy - Manhattan Active Omni supports one cubing strategy which is pre-seeded called "Store Cubing Strategy". A new record cannot be created, and the seeded record cannot be deleted. Cubing Criteria - Within the Cubing Strategy, retailers can configure one or more criteria. The criteria is used to determine the package group type to pack the item in. Each line of the fulfillment is evaluated against the prioritized list of criteria, and the first matching criteria is used. Rules - Within each criteria, one or more rules are defined based on a few attributes that are exposed from the Item entity. The rules are evaluated to determine if the criteria is a match or not. Cubing method - Cubing can be configured to either minimize the total number of packages or the total volume of the packages. In some cases both may yield the same result, but in others the two may produce different cubing recommendations. Once the package group type has been determined for the item, the cubing algorithm determines the smallest package type(s) within the package group type to cube the ordered units into. For example, if 5 package types exist with the same package type group, the cubing algorithm will determine the group of smallest packages (by volume) which will fulfill the items and meet the objective (minimize total packages or minimize total volume.) Sample Implementations Sample Implementation 1 - Multiple Package Type Groups Take the following example of a retailer who stocks goods for two different product lines (red and blue) and ships those out using two different branded boxes (red and blue.) Items belonging to the red brand must go into a red box, and items belonging to the blue brand must go into a blue box. Sample items: Item Product Class Ship ready? Unit Volume Unit Weight Critical Dimension 1 Critical Dimension 2 Critical Dimension 3 Picture frame Red No 48 2 8 6 1 Holiday tree Red Yes 2304 12 36 8 8 Box of ornaments Red No 432 2.5 12 12 3 Tablecloth Blue No 40 1 (empty) (empty) (empty) Package Types: Package Type Group Package Type Maximum volume Maximum weight Maximum units Length Width Height Red boxes Large red box 4000 50 999 40 10 10 Red boxes Medium red box 512 30 999 8 8 8 Red boxes Small red box 100 12 999 5 5 4 Blue boxes Large blue box 400 20 999 10 10 4 Blue boxes Small blue box 100 10 999 5 5 4 Sample orders: Order 1 - One tablecloth. This order will be cubed in a small blue box. Order 2 - One picture frame. This order will be cubed in a medium red box. (The picture frame can fit in the small red box based on volume, but not based on critical dimensions.) Order 3 - One tablecloth and one picture frame. This order will be cubed in a small blue box (tablecloth) and a medium red box (picture frame.) Order 4 - One Christmas tree. This order will be cubed into a single ship ready package. Order 5 - One Christmas tree and one box of ornaments. This order will be cubed into a large red box. Sample Implementation 2 - Single Package Type Group for all packages Take the following example of a retailer who stocks hardline and soft goods and ships using both boxes and poly bags. Per the retailer's policy, only soft goods are eligible for poly bags, while any item (including soft goods) can be shipped in a box. Sample items: Item Hardline or soft good Ship ready? Unit Volume Unit Weight Critical Dimension 1 Critical Dimension 2 Critical Dimension 3 Picture frame Hardline No 48 2 8 6 1 Holiday tree Hardline Yes 2304 12 36 8 8 Box of ornaments Hardline No 432 2.5 12 12 3 Tablecloth Soft good No 40 1 (empty) (empty) (empty) Package Types: Package Type Group Package Type Maximum volume Maximum weight Maximum units Length Width Height Store packages Large box 4000 50 999 40 10 10 Store packages Medium box 512 30 999 8 8 8 Store packages Small box 100 15 999 5 5 4 Store packages Large poly bag 70 5 3 1 1 1 Store packages Small poly bag 30 3 1 1 1 1 Sample orders: Order 1 - One tablecloth. This order will be cubed in a large poly bag. Order 2 - One picture frame. This order will be cubed in a medium box. (The picture frame can fit in the small box based on volume, but not based on critical dimensions.) Order 3 - One tablecloth and one picture frame. This order will be cubed in a medium box. Order 4 - One Christmas tree. This order will be cubed into a single ship ready package. Order 5 - One Christmas tree and one box of ornaments. This order will be cubed into a large box. Sample Implementation 3: Orders having one ship ready item with one quantity Sample items: There are two ship ready items as configured below. One item is a soft good and other is a hardline. Item Hardline or soft good Ship ready? Unit Volume Unit Weight Critical Dimension 1 Critical Dimension 2 Critical Dimension 3 Tablecloth Soft good Yes 48 2 No No No Holiday tree Hardline Yes 100 10 8 8 8 Package Type: There must be atleast one package type setup, that can accommodate the ship ready item. Package Type Group Package Type Maximum volume Maximum weight Maximum units Length Width Height Store packages Ship Ready Sample Box 2310 15 999 40 10 10 Sample orders: Order 1 - One tablecloth. This order will be cubed and recommended package type is shown to the user as "Ship Ready". Order 2 - One Holiday Tree. This order will be cubed and recommended package type is shown to the user as "Ship Ready". Cubing Recommendation Analysis Retailers can access statistics on how many fulfillments were packed according to cubed recommendations using this information: To find the number of fulfillments that were packed according to the cubing recommendation, find all fulfillments whose Cubed attribute = "YES". To obtain the number of fulfillments where the associate exited guided packing and performed non-directed packing, find all fulfillments with Cubed attribute = "MANUAL". To find the number of packages where the user remained in the cubed packing flow but changed the recommended package type to another value, find all packages whose packageTypeId <> packageTypeId attribute in the ItemCubingPackage child entity. The two entites are related by the cubedPackageId field. Note: Data in the ItemCubingPackage entity is purged after 15 days, so reporting should be done within 15 days. Exceptions Ignoring Cubing Recommendations - The associate has two ways to override the cubing recommendation if they do not have the recommended package type or wish to override for any other reason. If they are performing a one-for-one swap of the package type (for example, packing the same 3 items in a large box instead of a medium box) they can simply update the package type using the UI dropdown. To achieve more complex override use cases like the examples below, they can exit guided packing mode to revert to non-cubed packing where the associate will dictate which package and package type to place each item in. Splitting the recommended package type into multiple (for example, splitting a medium box into two small boxes) Combining multiple recommended package types into a single package (for example, combining a small and medium box into a large box) Any other scenarios that do not fall into a one-for-one swap Note: If the associate decides to exit guided packing after they have already packed some items, the packed items are retained and the remaining items to pack are left for the user to decide. Picking Shortages - Cubing is performed at the beginning of the packing process, so any shortages that occur during picking are taken into account. Picking Substitutions - Same as above. Packing Shortages - If the associate shorts an item during packing, the item is shorted the in progress package and any remaining packages not yet packed. The same is true for the Short Remaining function. Pause and Resume - If the user is interrupted while packing a cubed order and the packing activity is paused, when the activity is resumed the remaining items to pack are shown in the non-cubed packing UI. This applies both when the activity is resumed on the same device or a different device. Modify Packing - The modify packing function behaves the same for cubed orders as it does for non-cubed packing. Cancel Packing - The cancel packing function behaves the same for cubed orders as it does for non-cubed packing. RFID - RFID Cubing is currently not supported. If RFID Packing occurs while cubing is enabled, associates are directed to the non-cubed packing UI. Note: Cubing currently supports fulfillments with up to 50 lines. Cubing recommendations are not provided for fulfillments with more than 50 lines and must be packed using the non-cubed packing UI Fulfillment Outbound Events Scenario Fulfillment Event Outbound Message Name Order Event Created from Fulfillment Outbound Message When fulfillment is being packed, this event will be generated for every package that is built. This indicates that the fulfillment line is being packed and waiting carrier shipment labels to be placed Fulfillment/line status is changed to In-packing/ Packed and packed quantity on the fulfillment line is updated Fulfillment Packed An order event is created of type "Status Update" and status = "3700.000" ("Packed") Associate while packing might not find units to pack or finds damaged units. In that case, user may short during packing. This indicates that the fulfillment line has been shorted during packing Fulfillment/line status is changed to In-packing/ Packed and canceled quantity on the fulfillment line is updated Fulfillment Shorted An order event is created of type "Short" Associate may cancel complete packing activity to cancel packages in case needed to be rebuilt. In such case, the canceled packages should be communicated to the order component When a fulfillment or fulfillment line is canceled Fulfillment Canceled An order event is created of type "Short" Services The APIs listed in the following table are referenced in this document. Refer to the API documentation for additional details on each service. Service Component Group Service End Point Cancel a Task Group Fulfillment Packages Services /fulfillment/api/fulfillment/packages/cancel-pack-taskgroup/{fulfillmentId} Cancel List of Packages Fulfillment Packages Services /fulfillment/api/fulfillment/fulfillment/cancelpack Delete Packages Fulfillment Packages Services /fulfillment/api/fulfillment/packages/{pk} Get Fulfillment by Fulfillment ID Fulfillment Packages Services /fulfillment/api/fulfillment/pack/fulfillmentid/{fulfillmentId} Get Fulfillment by Task Group and Item Fulfillment Packages Services /fulfillment/api/fulfillment/pack/itemid-or-barcode/{itemIdOrBarcode}/taskgroup/{taskGroup}/location/{location} Get Packages by Package ID Fulfillment Packages Services /fulfillment/api/fulfillment/packages/fulfillmentId/{fulfillmentId}/packageId/{packageId} Initiate Packing Fulfillment Packages Services /fulfillment/api/fulfillment/packages/initiatepack/fulfillment/{fulfillmentId}/item-or-barcode/{itemIdOrBarcode} List Task Groups Eligible for Packing Fulfillment TaskGroup Services /fulfillment/api/fulfillment/taskGroup/list/taskGroupsToPack/{locationId} Get sorted fulfilments for packing Fulfillment fulfillment-sort-controller /fulfillment/api/fulfillment/fulfillment/sort/listSortedFulfillments Pack Fulfillment Packages Services /fulfillment/api/fulfillment/packages/pack Resume Packing Fulfillment Packages Services /fulfillment/api/fulfillment/packages/resume-pack/location/{location} Retrieve the Task Group Summary Fulfillment Packages Services /fulfillment/api/fulfillment/fulfillment/taskgroupsummary/taskGroupId/{taskGroupId} Search Packages Fulfillment Packages Services /fulfillment/api/fulfillment/packages/search Get Fulfillment by Task Group ID or Item ID Fulfillment Packages Services /fulfillment/api/fulfillment/fulfillment/taskgroupsummary/taskGroupIdOrItemId/{taskGroupIdOrItemId} Get Item Unit Info Store RFID RF Operations Controller /storerfid/api/storerfid/getItemUnitInfo Create or update unit inventory records Store RFID Unit Inventory Controller storerfid/api/storerfid/unitInventory/processUnitInventoryEvents