# Sorting Process

**Permalink:** fulfillment-sorting-process
**Content Length:** 12,322 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:36:13.843969

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Inventory & Fulfillment&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Order Fulfillment&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Sorting ››Sorting Process Sorting Process Select FulfillmentSingle Unit OrdersSorting UpdatesOrder ReadyFinish SortingFulfillment Outbound EventsServices Sorting is the process which combines items picked by multiple associates/picklists for multi-line orders using a team-based picking approach. During sorting, associates place inventory for an order&nbsp;in staging locations. When team-based picking is used, the sorting process is mandatory for shipment orders and optional for pickup orders. Refer to the Picking process guide for additional information on team-based picking. Sorting can occur by the same associate that performed picking, or a different associate. When sorting is performed by a different associate,&nbsp;the picker leaves the cart after picking. The sorter&nbsp;takes those picked carts&nbsp;to the staging area and performs sorting. The staging area for pickup orders should be near the customer pickup section of the store. For shipment orders, the staging area should be close to the store&#39;s packing station. &nbsp; To know more on the&nbsp; staging activity during offline mode, please refer to the&nbsp;Store Offline Support&nbsp;page. &nbsp; Select Fulfillment When the associate inputs an item to sort, the system returns eligible fulfillment(s) and all of the items on that fulfillment. The list of items in the fulfillment can help&nbsp;the associate choose an appropriate staging location. For example, if the order which the associate chooses also contains an oversized item, the associate can&nbsp;choose a staging location big enough to accommodate all the items of the order.&nbsp; The following logic is used in the Sort Fulfillment API&nbsp;to find&nbsp;matching&nbsp;fulfillments&nbsp;for an item and a store: The eligible fulfillment lines&nbsp;in &quot;Picked&quot; status&nbsp;for the item are returned. If a picklist is known, eligible fulfillment lines are returned only for the given picklist. If more than&nbsp;one order is found, If an order is being sorted, it&nbsp;takes precedence. If more than&nbsp;one order is being sorted, the highest&nbsp;priority order takes precedence. If none of them are being sorted, the highest&nbsp;priority order takes precedence. If priority is null or equal for all orders, the created date and time are used. The oldest order takes precedence. An Example: The Sorter scans an item White T-Shirt and the following fulfillment exists with that item in the system. Fulfillment Fulfillment line status Line sorted qty Total picked quantity Priority FUL0001 Picked 0 1 1 FUL0004 Picked 1 2 3 FUL0099 Accepted 0 0 NA FUL0034 Picked 0 3 2 &nbsp; System returns FUL004&nbsp;for the following reasons. Fulfillment Reason FUL0001 Eligible and highest priority. However, system gives more importance to orders already being sorted. FUL0004 Eligible. The fulfillment is already&nbsp;being sorted for that item. FUL0099 Not eligible as it is not picked yet FUL0034 Eligible. There are more higher priority orders that need to be sorted before. Single Unit Orders Retailers often have a single, large&nbsp;staging location for single-unit orders. If the single unit staging location is configured&nbsp;and a single unit order is selected, the configured default location is presented to the user. The user may change the location, if desired.&nbsp;See&nbsp;Configuration&nbsp;guide for additional details.&nbsp;&nbsp; Sorting Updates When the associate scans the item into the staging location, the quantity and staging location are&nbsp;updated. The Fulfillment Line Staging Location entity persists this information. Task related entities are created automatically to track the user activity, if needed. The Scan Location API is used to update&nbsp;the fulfillment. The following updates are done: The fulfillment line&#39;s staging location is updated with staging location and quantity.&nbsp;&nbsp; The fulfillment line&#39;s sorted quantity is updated. Once the sorted quantity&nbsp;matches with&nbsp;the picked quantity, the fulfillment line status is updated to &quot;Sorted&quot;. A task group&nbsp;is created with a task type&nbsp;= &quot;Sort&quot; in&nbsp;&quot;In-progress&quot; status. If a task group is already provided in the API, the same task group is used for staging location updates. A task&nbsp;is created per fulfillment line. When the fulfillment line moves to &quot;Sorted&quot;&nbsp;status, the task is updated to &quot;Completed&quot; status. Order Ready When all the units of all the order lines are sorted, the order is considered as ready&nbsp;for the next fulfillment process.&nbsp; Pickup Orders If sorting is performed for a pickup order, associates have the option to print the pickup slip for the order already sorted and then continue sorting of remaining&nbsp;orders or continue sorting and print the pickup slip later. Sorting is optional for pickup orders. Shipment Orders Once sorting is complete for a shipment order, associates can choose to either&nbsp;pack the order before returning to sorting&nbsp;or&nbsp;continue sorting of remaining orders and pack later. Refer to&nbsp;Packing&nbsp;process guide for details about packing sorted orders. Finish Sorting When the associate finishes sorting of an order, the Close Task Group API&nbsp;closes&nbsp;the task group. The status of the taskgroup is changed to &quot;Completed&quot;. Fulfillment Outbound Events Scenario Fulfillment Event Outbound Message Name Order Event Created from Fulfillment Outbound Message When an associate has assigned location(s) to place an order/orderline in the sorting area, after picking. The fulfillment is sorted. Fulfillment/line status is changed to Sorted. Sorted quantity on the fulfillment line gets updated Fulfillment Sorted An order event is created with type &quot;Status Update&quot; and status = &quot;3600.000&quot; (Picked)&nbsp; Note: Order Management does not update the status, it stays as Picked. Services The&nbsp;APIs listed in the following table are referenced in this document. Refer to the API documentation for additional details on&nbsp;each service. Service Component Group Service Endpoint Sort Fulfillment fulfillment fulfillment-sort-controller fulfillment/api/fulfillment/fulfillment/sort/sortFulfillment Scan Location fulfillment fulfillment-sort-controller fulfillment/api/fulfillment/fulfillment/scanLocation Close Task Group fulfillment fulfillment-sort-controller fulfillment/api/fulfillment/fulfillment/sort/closeTaskGroup