# Picking Configuration

**Permalink:** fulfillment-picking-configuration
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Store/Process & Configuration Guides/Store Inventory & Fulfillment/Store Order Fulfillment/Picking/Configuration
**Content Length:** 43,953 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:04:23.921259

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Store››Process & Configuration Guides››Store Inventory & Fulfillment››Store Order Fulfillment››Picking ››Picking Configuration Picking Configuration Master DataPick Path Optimization Store LayoutUpdate Store LayoutPicklist GenerationMaximum SizePick to SlotGrouping and SequencingTeam-based PickingScan ControlsTaggingDynamic Picking PrioritizationBusiness ConfigurationStore Fulfillment Priority GroupStore Fulfillment Priority Group Localization Store Fulfillment Prioritization AttributesFulfillment Priority Tag RuleExample of Fulfillment Priority Tag Rule CreationPrevent Shipping on Payment FailureStore Fulfillment Prioritization Tag Rule Localization Setting up Batch Job SchedulerA sample JSON to configure the job scheduler to reprioritize the fulfillments.On Hand Inventory VisibilityAuto cancel picklistStore exceptions for idle tasksStore exceptions for idle task time interval in mins for pickup pick ordersStore exceptions idle task time interval in mins for shipment pick ordersPush notifications for customer shipment orderReason CodesUIs and Entities Master Data The master data entities listed below pertain to the picking functionality. Refer to the Master Data Guide for additional information. Item Item category Pick Path Optimization Store Layout Store layout involves defining areas in the store where the inventory resides and then mapping inventory to those areas. This is required to use the Pick Path Optimization functionality. The following must be configured to create a store layout. Item attribute definition - Identify a single item attribute which will be used to map areas in the store. Examples of an eligible item attribute include store department or style. All items with this attribute will then be mapped to one or more areas in the attribute/area mapping. Configured in the ItemAttributeDefinition entity, and only 1 ItemAttributeDefinition record should be configured. Area definitions - Defines physical locations where the inventory resides. Up to two fields (Area1 and Area2) can be used to define each location (Example, Aisle 8, Bay 12.). Also, specify a sequence for each area to determine what will be used when generating the area sequence on the picklist. Configured in the AreaDefinition entity. Attribute/area mapping - Map item attribute values to areas. While one attribute value can be mapped to multiple areas, one must be specified as the primary. Sequence numbers are also configured for each attribute value to sequence attribute values on the picklist within the area grouping. Configured in the AreaItemMap entity. Primary location must be unique for an ItemAttributeValue, i.e. only one primary location should be configured for each style/department/color/item etc. If multiple items share the same primary location, then use ItemAttributeValue as the department. So that all the items are available on a picklist under one section. An example: Item attribute definition: Store Department (example values include: Men's shirts, Men's pants, Women's tops and shoes) Area Definitions Area ID Area 1 Area 2 Sequence Front Left Front Left 1 Front Right Front Right 2 Rear Right Middle Right 3 Rear Left Middle Left 4 Attribute/Area Mappings Area ID Attribute value Item sequence Front Left Men's shirts (primary) 1 Front Left Men's pants (primary) 2 Front Right Women's tops (primary) 1 Rear Right Women's tops 1 Rear Right Shoes 2 Rear Left Men's shirts 1 Rear Left Men's pants 2 Note: All these configurations are used to calculate the path sequence. Once the path sequence is calculated, the total number of digits should not exceed 12. Pick sequence calculation is : ((Area Sequence * 10000)+ Item Sequence) = Pick Sequence, therefore Pick Sequence  should be <=12 digits. Note: The maximum value allowed for area sequence is 2,147,483,648. Retailers can configure store layouts at the Location level, Store Profile Type level (Group of Locations such as "Mall Stores", "Outlet Stores" etc.) or Organization level. Note: When configuring a store layout at store location level, provide "LocationId" in the header section. If the store layout is configured for a group of locations (i.e. store profile type level), for example, East Coast stores, West coast stores, then provide a "StoreProfileType" value in the header section. Refer to Config UI guide for more information. For sample JSONs, refer to https://developer.manh.com/ documentation. Update Store Layout If a store layout needs to be changed, the layout must be deleted and a new layout bridged in. It is not possible to directly change an already existing layout. Like in the example below, during updation of ‘StoreLayout2’, if the Garden value needs to be replaced with some other value, the entire area (Houseware included) needs to be deleted and the layout needs to be created from scratch. The process of creating a new store layout takes time and can range between hours to days. Example: In a PE exercise, it took 4 days to populate 500M items. That translates to roughly 5M records per hour. An average store with 40M items will take nearly 8 hours to create the complete layout data. { "ProfileId": "StoreLayout2", "AreaName2": "Bay 1", "AreaName1": "Aisle 2", "AreaId": "Aisle2-Bay1", "AreaSequence": 3, "AreaItemMap": [ { "ProfileId": "StoreLayout2", "ItemSequence": 1, "ItemAttributeValue": "Garden", "ParentAreaDefinition": { }, "IsPrimary": true, }, { "ProfileId": "StoreLayout2", "ItemSequence": 2, "ItemAttributeValue": "Houseware", "ParentAreaDefinition": { }, "IsPrimary": true, } ], } Picklist Generation Maximum Size The Number of ship to home orders to pick for batch picking flag on the Store Fulfillment Configuration UI defines the maximum number of fulfillment that can be added to a picklist. Typically, retailers use batch picking of multiple orders to be shipped. If retailers need to apply batch picking for pickup orders, the maximum value specified in this configuration is used for the pickup order as well. Tip: Base default is set to 10. It is recommended not to set this value very high. If pick-to-slot is enabled, the Number of slots configuration on the Store Fulfillment Parameters UI represents the maximum number of fulfillment that can be added to a slotted picklist. This defines the physical number of slots available in the pick cart used for picking. Pick to Slot The following store fulfillment configurations are available in the Store Fulfillment Parameters UI to turn on or off pick-to-slot. Pick to slot for shipments - Slots are assigned to shipment orders, and the picklist contains the slot information if the "Pick to Slot for shipments" flag is set to True. Pick to slot for pickups - Slots are assigned to pick up orders, and the picklist contains the slot information if the "Pick to Slot for pickups" flag is set to True. Enable pick to slot based on tag configuration - Applicable only when one or both the flags listed above are set to true. By default, this flag is disabled. If this flag is set to true, slots are assigned for the following shipment and/or pickup orders: For an order that has at least one tag which requires pick to slot, slots are assigned. For an order that has tags, but none require pick to slot, no slots are assigned For an order that has no tags, slots are assigned. Note: When MA Store UI is used to select orders and start picking, the passed orders will either be only slotted orders or non-slotted orders. The above information assumes a case where the Generate Picklist service is used for the mixed set of orders. Else (not set to true), slots are assigned for all shipment and/or pickup orders, regardless of tags. Note: Pick to slot based on tag configuration can be enabled at the organization level or store level using the profile configuration. For store level configuration to work, the release outbound message type configuration should have isUserOverride set to True (sample json below) The sample json for the message type POST /order/api/ServiceDefinition/outBoundMessageType/save { "MessageType": "PublishReleaseEventToManhStoreMSGType", "IsUserOverride": true, "Transactional": true, "PersistMessageToMsgStore": false, "OutBoundQueues": { "QueueName": "queue.publishReleaseOutboundEvent" } } Tip: To pick multi-unit orders from a slotted cart and single-unit orders from a regular cart, create a rule that identifies multi-unit orders with pick to slot = true, as well as a rule that identifies single-unit orders with pick to slot = false. The Sequence To Use For Slots Identifier configuration can be used to define the slot identifier in the pick cart. If set to 'Alphabets', slots are named as A, B, C, D, etc. If it is set into numbers, slots are named 1, 2, 3, etc. Grouping and Sequencing The Use path optimization while generating picklist flag on the Store Fulfillment Configuration UI controls whether to group picklists by store department or by area (using store layout and Pick Path Optimization functionality). Team-based Picking The following store fulfillment configurations are available to turn on or turn off the team-based picking of fulfillment: 1) Split picking for shipments - Multi-line shipment orders can be picked by multiple associates if the "Split Shipment fulfillments to be picked by multiple associates" flag is set to true. 2) Split picking for pickups - Multi-line pickup orders can be picked by multiple associates if the "Split Pickup fulfillments to be picked by multiple associates" flag is set to true. If the configuration is turned on and fulfilment lines are tagged, then each associate can pick one or more fulfillment line(s) based on the tags. Team-based picking and tagging configurations are independent and can be turned on/off separately. Scan Controls The Required to scan at least one unit flag on the Store Fulfillment Configuration UI controls the edit quantity behavior on the UI. At least one unit is required to be scanned before editing the picked quantity on the UI, if the flag is set to true. Editing quantity is allowed for only those items that have the Scan Only attribute set as false. This is helpful in ensuring the right items are picked without losing the ability to edit the quantity in the case of multi-unit picking.  This applies only to the picking and packing UI. Tagging Tagging rules are configured with the Store Fulfillment Tag Rules UI. Tags can be configured based on the type of order (Ship from Store or Pick up at store). For each tag, multiple rule conditions can be specified. When rules-based pick to slot is used, the 'Requires Pick to Slot' attribute defines whether the orders with that tag should be picked in a slotted or non-slotted cart. The following attributes are recommended for team-based picking. Item & Store Department Item & Store Item Area - Store area name1 and Store area name2 Attributes that are available outside of the box for creating tagging rules can be viewed and new attributes can be added. Dynamic Picking Prioritization This section covers the configuration required to enable dynamic picking prioritization. Much of this configuration is based on the configuration that's used for tagging fulfillments. Business Configuration Enable the configuration to sort the fulfillment for picking based on the priority. This configuration is available in the Store Fulfillment Parameters UI and is disabled by default. Configuration Name: Prioritize fulfillments using prioritization rules Note: To use this feature at the location level, this configuration must be enabled at the org level. If the location has its own fulfillment config profile purpose, then this configuration must be enabled at the org level and location level. Note: If the fulfillment priority configuration is enabled, then order priority will be saved in the fulfillment entity attribute "OrderPriority". Fulfillment priority value will be saved in the fulfillment entity attribute "Priority". Store Fulfillment Priority Group Create one or more priority groups to categorize the priority tag rules. Each priority group should have a unique priority group rank. One priority group can have multiple priority tag rules. Note: A priority tag rule can be mapped with only one priority group Create priority groups in the Store Fulfillment Priority Group UI An example of priority groups mapped with tag rules is below. Priority Group Priority Group Rank Priority Tag Rules P1 1 Tag Rule 1 (Ex. Marketplace Orders) with Rank 1 P1 1 Tag Rule 2 (Ex. Expedited Shipping Orders) with Rank 2 P2 2 Tag Rule 3 (Ex. Ground Shipping Orders) with Rank 3 P2 2 Tag Rule 4 (Ex. Smartpost, Surepost Shipping) with Rank 4 Note: It is recommended to map the highest priority tag rules with the highest priority group. Store Fulfillment Priority Group Localization The Priority Groups within fulfillment prioritization can be localized to support other languages. To localize a priority group, follow these steps: 1) Use the GET FulfillmentPriorityGroup API to obtain the current list of priority groups. GET fulfillment/api/fulfillment/fulfillmentPriorityGroup 2) Pick which priority group record that needs to be localized and provide the localized values. Use the POST FulfillmentPriorityGroup API to save the localized values. Below is an example. POST fulfillment/api/fulfillment/fulfillmentPriorityGroup/save { "GroupName": "Priority 1", "GroupRank": 1, "LocalizedData": [ { "LanguageKey": "en", "GroupName": "Priority 1" }, { "LanguageKey": "fr", "GroupName": "Priorité 1" } ] } Store Fulfillment Prioritization Attributes Create one or more fulfillment prioritization attributes. These are used to sort the fulfillments having the same priority tag rules in ascending or descending order. The attribute can be either numeric or a date property defined on Fulfillment or Fulfillment line. It can also be an extended property defined as fulfillment or fulfillment line. Note: Fulfillment header level attributes are defined as they are. For example, PickupExpiryDate's attribute mapping path is PickupExpiryDate. On the other hand, Fulfillment Line level attributes are defined with a FulfillmentLine prefix. For example, Fulfillment Line level Ordered Qty's attribute mapping path is defined as FulfillmentLine.OrderedQty. Note: A maximum of 4 fulfillment prioritization attributes can be used in a priority tag rule Note: Prioritization attributes are used solely for assigning priority to a fulfillment. The selection criteria to determine which priority group/tag to apply to the fulfillment is based on the Fulfillment Attributes entity. For example, if the Shipping Due Date attribute is used to sort fulfillments in ascending order and multiple orders belong to the same priority tag rule, such orders will be sorted in the ascending order of their shipping due date. Create prioritization attributes for tag rules in the Store Fulfillment Prioritization Attributes UI. Fulfillment Priority Tag Rule Create fulfillment priority tag rules in the Store Fulfillment Priority Tag Rules UI. Example of Fulfillment Priority Tag Rule Creation Create a priority group as the following: "P1 Orders" with rank 1 in the Store Fulfillment Tag Group UI. Create fulfillment prioritization attributes as the following: Order total and Shipping due date in the Store Fulfillment Prioritization Attribute UI. How to create the priority tag rule in the "Store Fulfillment Tag Rules" UI. Tap on the "Add New Rule" button and then enter the priority ag name. Enter the priority tag rule name, such as Marketplace Order with tag rank 1. Select a tag group to prioritize shipment or pickup orders and map with a priority group, "P1 Orders". For shipment orders, select the tag group Prioritize shipment orders. For pickup orders, select the tag group Prioritize pickup orders. Note: When the tag group is selected as "Prioritize Shipment Orders" or "Prioritize Pickup Orders", then only "Tag Rank", "Tag Priority Group" and "Prioritization Rules" fields are shown on the UI. Select the priority group ("P1 Orders"). To show the tag rule name in the filter option in the picking UI, enable the option of "Show on Store UI as filter option". Select available attributes for condition as Prioritization attributes = Order Total (Ascending) and shipping due date (Ascending). Order Type = “Marketplace Order” Note: To use the "On Hand Inventory" attribute as a rule condition, the Store Fulfillment Parameter "Select demand type to see the on hand inventory and available inventory on the picklist" must be configured with a Demand Type. Fulfillment priority calculation The formula used to generate the rank Fulfillment priority rank = Priority Group Rank + Priority Rule Tag Rank + If Ascending use Fulfillment Attribute Value, or else use (Max Value - Attribute value) Note: Group Rank can have a maximum value up to 999. Note: Tag rank can have a max value of 9999. Note: Each attribute is represented as 20 characters for date/non-decimal fields. Note: For attributes having decimal values, out of 20 characters, the first 16 characters are used for the whole part, the last 4 characters are for the fractional part. e.g 1234.89 will be represented as 00000000000012348900. Example 1: Assuming Fulfillment F001 has Order Type = Marketplace Order, Prioritization attributes = Order Total (Ascending), and shipping due date (Ascending). Order Total =12, Shipping Due Date = March 9, 2021 11:40:10 AM (GMT) Priority for fulfillment F001 is calculated as 001 + 0001 + 00000000000000000012 + 00000000001615290010 (Epoch format of the date) =  001000100000000000000000012000000000016152900100000000000000000000000000000000000000000 Example 2: Change the condition of the priority tag rule as Order Type = “Marketplace Order” and Prioritization attributes = Order Total (Ascending), and shipping due date (Ascending). Order Total = 12, Shipping Due Date = March 9, 2021 11:40:10 AM (GMT) Assuming Fulfillment F001 has Order Type= Marketplace Order, Order Total =12, Shipping Due Date = March 9, 2021 11:40:10 AM (GMT) Priority for fulfillment F001 is  calculated as 001 + 0001 + 00000000000000000012 + (99999999999999999999 - 00000000001615290010) = 0010001000000000000000000129999999999838470998900000000000000000000000000000000000000000 Prevent Shipping on Payment Failure If using the Prevent Shipping on Payment Failure functionality, define a Fulfillment Priority Tag rule with Line Short Count greater than 0. This will rank fulfillments which were previously cancelled higher than others. Store Fulfillment Prioritization Tag Rule Localization The tag rules within fulfillment prioritization can be localized to support other languages. To localize a tag rule, follow these steps: 1) Use the GET RuleAction API to obtain the current list of tag rules. GET fulfillment/api/rules/ruleAction 2) Pick which tag rule record that needs to be localized and provide the localized values. Use the POST RuleAction API to save the localized values. Below is an example. POST fulfillment/api/rules/ruleAction/save { "RuleActionId": "Marketplace Order", "LocalizedData": [ { "LanguageKey": "en", "LocalizedActionValue": "Marketplace Order" }, { "LanguageKey": "fr", "LocalizedActionValue": "Ordre du Marché" } ] } Setting up Batch Job Scheduler A sample JSON to configure the job scheduler to reprioritize the fulfillments. POST message {{url}}/fulfillment/api/batch/jobSchedule/save { "IsDisabled": false, "IsAdHoc": false, "Process": null, "StartDelay": null, "TriggerKey": "reprioritizeFulfillmentJobTrigger", "UpdatedBy": "u1@fb-us-b1.com", "TimeZone": null, "JobTypeId": "reprioritizeFulfillmentJob", "ContextId": "6ad05b75-d389-4ad9-898d-333b2c1b6860", "CronExpression": "0 0 1 1/1 * ? *", "JobParameters": [], "JobScheduleId": "reprioritizeFulfillmentJob_Schedule", "RepeatInterval": null } On Hand Inventory Visibility Configure the demand type to view the "On Hand" and "Available to Pick" inventory on the item details screen. Only one demand type can be configured and by default none is selected. These demand types should be created and mapped with the supply types in the Inventory component. This configuration is available in the store fulfillment parameters. Configuration Name: Select demand type to see the on hand inventory and available inventory on the picklist Auto cancel picklist To enable the auto cancellation of picklists, two steps are required. First, configure a non-zero value for the auto cancel pickup and/or shipment picklist parameters in the Store Fulfillment Parameters UI. If the values are null or zero, auto cancellation will not occur. Each time the scheduler runs, any picklist with no activity which was created longer than this time ago is eligible for cancellation. Configuration Name: Auto cancel pickup order picklist if no progress (in mins). Configuration Name: Auto cancel shipment order picklist if no progress (in mins). Second, the job scheduler must be enabled. Use the Job Schedule UI to enable and configure the job scheduler entry. The cron expression in the job scheduler entry determines when the scheduler runs. In the Job schedule screen, select the Fulfillment component from the filter. The job schedule screen shows the list of available job schedulers. Select the job scheduler "autoCancelPicklistJob" and edit the 'autoCancelPicklistJob' entry. By default, the entry is disabled. Configure the cron expression. Configure the trigger key as "autoCancelPicklistJobTrigger" for the Job Execution Configuration. To configure the job scheduler to run at the store level, In the Job Parameter configuration, Add parameter name = "FacilityIds" List the location Ids to run the entry for in the Parameter value. Example of Parameter Value: 'Store1', 'Store2', 'Store3', etc... To run the job scheduler at the organization level, do not configure the FacilityIds job parameter. Enable the job schedule entry Store exceptions for idle tasks Store exceptions for idle task time interval in mins for pickup pick orders This parameter defines the time interval after which a pickup pick task is considered idle. The idle time is calculated as the current time - last modified time of the task. This configuration is set to 0 by default. Store exceptions idle task time interval in mins for shipment pick orders This parameter defines the time interval after which a shipment pick task is considered idle. The idle time is calculated as the current time - last modified time of the task. This configuration is set to 0 by default. Push notifications for customer shipment order The 'Enable push notification for customer shipment order' parameter in the Store Fulfillment Parameters UI controls whether push notifications are sent to the store's devices when a new shipment order arrives at the store and the retailer has enabled push notifications (refer to the push notification document for additional information.) If set to true, push notifications are sent to store devices when a new customer shipment order arrives. By default, this parameter is set to false. Reason Codes Reason codes with reason type 'Short' must be defined in the Store Fulfillment Reasons UI to report shortages during picking. Reason codes with fulfillment type equal to null, 'PickupOrder' (Prepare Pickups) or 'ShipmentOrder' (Prepare Shipments) are displayed for shorting. Fulfillment Type Function Pickup order Displayed when shorting pickup fulfillments Shipment order Displayed when shorting customer shipment fulfillments Resources Refer to Store fulfillment UI resources guide for information rag Fulfilment Outbound Event Configuration UIs and Entities The configuration UIs mentioned in this document are listed in the following table, along with information to navigate to the API documentation. UI Name Component Group Seed Data Present? Seed Data Profile Store Fulfillment Configuration Fulfillment FulfillmentConfiguration services Yes Base Store Fulfillment Parameters Fulfillment FulfillmentParameter services Yes Base Store Fulfillment Reasons Fulfillment FulfillmentReasons services Yes Base Store Fulfillment Tag Rules Fulfillment Rule services No N/a Fulfillment AvailableAttribute services No N/a Store Fulfillment Priority Groups Fulfillment Rule services No N/a Store Fulfillment Priority Groups Fulfillment AvailableAttribute services No N/a Outbound Message Types Order OutboundMessageType services Yes Base N/a Path Optimization AreaDefinition services No N/a Path Optimization ItemAttributeDefinition services No N/a