# Fulfillment Scorecard

**Permalink:** fulfillmentscorecard
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Store/Process & Configuration Guides/Store Inventory & Fulfillment/Store Order Fulfillment/Fulfillment Scorecard
**Content Length:** 49,612 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:04:14.718550

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Store››Process & Configuration Guides››Store Inventory & Fulfillment››Store Order Fulfillment ››Fulfillment Scorecard Fulfillment Scorecard OverviewAssumptionsFulfillment ScorecardMy Fulfillment ScorecardCalculation FormulaPrepare Pickups and ShipmentsPack ShipmentsTask Management - ReassignPicking GoalPacking GoalConfigurationStore Fulfillment ConfigurationCapture Data to Calculate Store and Associate’s Fulfillment ScorecardShow Today’s Pick Activity on Fulfillment ScorecardShow Today’s Pack Activity on Fulfillment ScorecardPicking Goal (Units Per Hour)Packing Goal (Units Per Hour)Acceptable %Include pre-packing activity in the overall packing timeFulfillment Outbound ChangesExtension Point to Message Type Mapping in FulfillmentExtension Point to Message Type Mapping in Time ClockTime Clock Outbound ChangesTime Clock Inbound ChangesResources for Fulfillment ScorecardUIs and EntitiesServicesTroubleshooting Overview Store managers can use Manhattan Active® Omni Fulfillment Scorecard to view productivity information of a store and its associates who perform fulfillment activities. The processing rate per hour, volume, and time taken to pick and pack customer orders are shown. The most and least productive associates are also listed. This information can be used to evaluate performance, fine tune processes, and train store associates. This guide gives an overview of the fulfillment scorecard in Manhattan Active® Omni's Store Inventory & Fulfillment application. Assumptions Clock out, break out are not considered as pause Fulfillment Scorecard The current day's fulfillment scorecard and volume of picking and packing activities are shown for the logged-in store. The scorecards of the associates that performed picking or packing in the logged-in store are listed. Tapping on an associate's record navigates to details page. The following information for the current day at the store is shown: Store level fulfillment scorecard Picking Average number of units picked per hour Total number of units picked Total time spent picking in the store Picker that has the highest scorecard Picker that has the lowest scorecard Packing Average number of units packed per hour Total number of units packed by the store Total time spent packing in the store Packer that has the highest scorecard Packer that has the lowest scorecard Associate List Scorecard Average number of units picked per hour by every associate who performed picking today Average number of units packed per hour by every associate who performed packing today Associate Scorecard PIcking Average number of units picked per hour Total number of units picked Total time spent on picking Total units rejected while picking Percentage of rejection while picking Packing Average number of units packed per hour Total number of units packed Total time spent on packing Total units rejected while packing Percentage of rejection while packing My Fulfillment Scorecard The current day's rate of picking and packing, volume of picking and packing, time spent on picking and packing, and rejections while picking and packing of the logged-in associate are shown. This helps associates to review their own performance. Calculation Formula Average Units Picked Per Hour for an associate = total number of units picked by the associate today * 60 / total actual time spent in minutes by the associate to pick units Average Units Packed Per Hour for an associate = total number of units packed by the associate today * 60 / total actual time spent in minutes by the associate to pack units Average Units Picked Per Hour for the store = total number of units picked by all associates today * 60 / total actual time spent in minutes by all associates of the store to pick units Average Units Packed Per Hour for the store = total number of units packed by all associates today * 60 / total actual time spent in minutes by all associates of the store to pack units Rejection Percentage for an associate while picking = total number of units rejected by the associate today while picking * 100 / (total number of units rejected by the associate today while picking + total number of units picked by the associate today) Rejection Percentage for an associate while packing = total number of units rejected by the associate today while packing * 100/ (total number of units rejected by the associate today while packing + total number of units packed by the associate today) Total Time Spent on picking = total number of minutes spent between start and completion of picking - total paused time across multiple pauses between start and end of picking Total Time Spent on packing = total number of minutes spent between start and completion of packing - total paused time across multiple pauses between start and end of packing Note: Some retailers may want to organize and sort the picked items before they start the actual packing process. The time spent on this pre-packing activity can be captured and included in the overall packing time by enabling the "Include pre-packing activity in the overall packing time" configuration in the Fulfillment Scorecard tab of the Store Fulfillment Parameters. Please refer to the Pack Shipments section for more details on how pre-packing activity time is captured. Once this configuration is enabled, the time spent in pre-packing activity is considered in the calculation of 1) Average Units Packed Per Hour for an associate, 2) Average Units Packed Per Hour for the store, and 3) Total Time Spent on packing. Calculation assumptions: Today refers to 12:00:00 AM to 11.59.59 PM in the store's timezone. The actual time spent in picking and packing is computed after excluding paused durations from the total time taken. Paused duration is the time difference between pause and resume events. A task's metric is calculated once it is completed. If an activity is reassigned, the total units completed and the time spent are credited to the store associate who finished the activity. The total active time spent on performing an activity on previous days is considered. All the credits, both time spent and units picked / packed, go to the associate who finished the activity. Credits appear on the associate’s scorecard of the day when the activity was completed. The following table illustrates how the calculations are performed when an activity starts on the previous day by an associate and is completed by another associate on the following day. Event User Time Total Paused Duration Notes Started Mary 8/1/2021   5:00:00 PM -- Pause Mary 8/1/2021   5:30:00 PM -- Work for 30 minutes Reassign James 8/2/2021 10:00:00 AM 990 mins Reassigned to James Resume James 8/2/2021 10:30:00 AM 1020 mins Completed James 8/2/2021 12:00:00 PM 1020 mins Work for 90 more minutes. Active time spent = 120 mins and all credited to James as if he started the activity and the entire completed units are credited on a scorecard of 8/2/2021, as if the activity started on that day. Note: The store fulfillment scorecard is updated every 10 minutes by default. Prepare Pickups and Shipments Since paused times are reduced from the total time spent in picking to arrive at the actual time spent, the Store application records when an associate pauses or resumes the picking activity. The Persist Productivity Event service keeps track of the pause and resume times. The start and completion times are captured automatically by the system when a picklist is generated and a pick is submitted. When cancellation of picking is done, the cancelled event is captured, the user activity record is removed, and the activity is ignored during the calculations of the fulfillment scorecard. Pack Shipments Since paused times are reduced from the total time spent on packing to arrive at the actual time spent, the Store application records when an associate pauses or resumes the packing activity. The Persist Productivity Event service keeps track of the pause and resume times. The start and completion times are captured automatically by the system when packing is initiated and completed for an order. When cancellation of packing is done, the cancelled event is captured, the user activity record is removed, and the activity is ignored during the calculations of the fulfillment scorecard. When the "Include pre-packing activity in the overall packing time" Fulfillment Scorecard Store Fulfillment Parameters configuration is enabled, the time spent on the Pack Task Group Summary and the Pack Details screens, i.e. the time difference between the input of the Pack Task Group ID for Packing and the scan of the first item to be packed is assumed to be the pre-packing activity time and is added to the overall packing time. Activity Time Notes User taps on Pack Orders in the interstial screen after Picking OR Users enters a Fulfillment ID using Pack Orders in the Pack List UI OR Users taps on a Packing Task on the Pack List UI 8/1/2021  5:00:00 PM User scans the first item to be packed 8/1/2021  5:06:00 PM 6 minutes are assumed to be spent in pre-packing activity and they are added to the overall packing time. In other words, the packing start time is considered as 8/1/2021 at 5:00:00 PM. On the other hand, when the "Include pre-packing activity in the overall packing time" Fulfillment Scorecard Store Fulfillment Parameters configuration is disabled, packing time starts when the first item is scanned or entered for packing. Activity Time Notes User taps on Pack Orders in the interstial screen after Picking OR Users enters a Fulfillment ID using Pack Orders in the Pack List UI OR Users taps on a Packing Task on the Pack List UI 8/1/2021  5:00:00 PM User scans the first item to be packed 8/1/2021  5:06:00 PM Packing time starts on 8/1/2021 at 5:06:00 PM. Note: Pre-Packing Activity Time is lost and not added to the overall packing time in the following events: 1) The user navigates away before packing the first item in the fulfillment, 2) The user cancels the packing activity, and 3) The user's session expires or the device battery drains before packing the first item in the fulfillment. Task Management - Reassign When a picking or packing activity for customer orders is reassigned, the Store application records the time when the reassignment was performed. All the picked/packed units and time spent in performing the activity are transferred to the associate that completes the activity. Picking Goal If a picking goal is configured for the store, the dashboard displays the store's picking rate in comparison to the goal in the form of a donut chart. Goals are defined as units per hour. For example, if the configured picking goal is 30 units per hour and the store's current rate for the day is 25 units per hour, the UI will show a donut widget with 83% progress. The donut chart displays in a green or red color to signify whether the store's goal has been met. If the acceptable percentage has been configured, this defines the breakpoint of green versus red. For example, if the goal is configured as 30 units per hour and the acceptable percentage is 60%, the donut chart will show green if the store's rate is greater than or equal to 18 units per hour, and in red if it is less than 18. The default value for the acceptable percentage is 100%. Using the same example, the donut chart would show in green if the store's rate is greater than or equal to 30 units per hour, and red if less than 30. Refer to the Picking Goal & Acceptable configurations. Packing Goal If a packing goal is configured for the store, the dashboard displays the store's packing rate in comparison to the goal in the form of a donut chart. Goals are defined as units per hour. For example, if the configured packing goal is 20 units per hour and the store's current rate for the day is 15 units per hour, the UI will show a donut widget with 75% progress. The donut chart displays in a green or red color to signify whether the store's goal has been met. If the acceptable percentage has been configured, this defines the breakpoint of green versus red. For example, if the goal is configured as 20 units per hour and the acceptable percentage is 80%, the donut chart will show green if the store's rate is greater than or equal to 16 units per hour, and in red if it is less than 16. The default value for the acceptable percentage is 100%. Using the same example, the donut chart would show in green if the store's rate is greater than or equal to 20 units per hour, and red if less than 20. Refer to the Packing Goal & Acceptable configurations. Configuration Below is a checklist of all configuration and interface mapping changes required to enable collection of data to display on the Fulfillment Scorecard. *Indicates that help is required by Manhattan services to complete this configuration. Otherwise, configuration can be done within the application or on external, customer-owned systems. Store Fulfillment Enable Store Fulfillment Parameters listed below Store Fulfillment Configuration Capture Data to Calculate Store and Associate’s Fulfillment Scorecard Configuration in the Fulfillment Scorecard tab within Store Fulfillment Parameters defines whether the data to calculate store and associates' fulfillment scorecards is captured or not. The default value for this configuration is set to false. Set it as true to enable capturing of data required to calculate the fulfillment scorecard. Configuration Name: Capture data to calculate store and associate’s fulfillment scorecard Show Today’s Pick Activity on Fulfillment Scorecard Configuration in the Fulfillment Scorecard tab within Store Fulfillment Parameters defines whether the store managers and corporates can view the scorecard for picking or not. The default value for this configuration is set to true. Disable this when the picking is not performed using the Store Inventory & Fulfillment application. Configuration Name: Show today’s pick activity on fulfillment scorecard Show Today’s Pack Activity on Fulfillment Scorecard Configuration in the Fulfillment Scorecard tab within Store Fulfillment Parameters defines whether the store managers and corporates can view the scorecard for packing or not. The default value for this configuration is set to true. Disable this when only pickup orders are processed or the packing is not performed using the Store Inventory & Fulfillment application. Configuration Name: Show today’s pack activity on fulfillment scorecard Picking Goal (Units Per Hour) This configuration in the Fulfillment Scorecard tab within Store Fulfillment Parameters defines the optional picking goal for the store. The picking goal is defined as the number of units picked in an hour. If configured, the actual picking rate for the store is compared on the UI against this goal. Packing Goal (Units Per Hour) This configuration in the Fulfillment Scorecard tab within Store Fulfillment Parameters defines the optional packing goal for the store. The packing goal is defined as the number of units packed in an hour. If configured, the actual packing rate for the store is compared on the UI against this goal. Acceptable % This optional configuration in the Fulfillment Scorecard tab within Store Fulfillment Parameters defines an acceptable percentage for the configured picking and packing goals. This percentage is used to display the green and red color breakpoints on the dashboard. The same percentage is applied to both the picking and packing goals. For example, if the picking goal is defined as 50 units per hour and the acceptable percentage is configured to 60%, the goal is considered met when the actual rate meets or exceeds 30 units per hour. The default value for this configuration is 100%. Include pre-packing activity in the overall packing time Configuration in the Fulfillment Scorecard tab within Store Fulfillment Parameters defines whether the data to calculate the pre-packing activity time is captured and included in the overall packing time or not. The default value for this configuration is set to false. Set it as true to enable capturing of data required to include the time spent on pre-packing activities in the overall packing time. Configuration Name: Include pre-packing activity in the overall packing time Fulfillment Outbound Changes Get the outbound configuration data using the API below. Verify that ProductivityMetricEventMSGType exists. GET API Name: URL/fulfillment/api/ServiceDefinition/outBoundMessageType If the above data doesn't exist, add it to the existing data and post it by using the API below. POST API Name: URL/fulfillment/api/ServiceDefinition/outBoundMessageType/save { "MessageType": "ProductivityMetricEventMSGType", "Transactional": true, "PersistMessageToMsgStore": false, "OutBoundQueues": { "QueueName": "queue.ProductivityMetricEvent" } } Extension Point to Message Type Mapping in Fulfillment Extension point to message type mapping should be set as below. POST API Name: {URL}/fulfillment/api/ServiceDefinition/extPointToMessageType/import { "ExtensionPointId": "ProductivityMetricEvent", "MessageType": "ProductivityMetricEventMSGType" } Extension Point to Message Type Mapping in Time Clock Extension point to message type mapping should be set as below. POST API Name: {URL}/timeclock/api/ServiceDefinition/extPointToMessageType/import [ { "ExtensionPointId": "ProductivityMetricEvent", "MessageType": "ProductivityMetricEventMSGType" }, { "ExtensionPointId": "FwEntityPurge:EntityPurge:Event:Publish", "MessageType": "fwPurgeEntity-timeclock" }, { "ExtensionPointId": "FwEntityPurge:EntityPurgeRangeDetail:Event:Publish", "MessageType": "fwPurgeEntityPKRange-timeclock" }, { "ExtensionPointId": "FwEntityPurge:EntityPurgeRangeDetail:Event:PublishStatus", "MessageType": "fwPurgeEntityStatus-timeclock" }, { "ExtensionPointId": "UserProductivityMetricEvent", "MessageType": "UserProductivityMetricEventMSGType" }, { "ExtensionPointId": "StoreProductivityMetricEvent", "MessageType": "StoreProductivityMetricEventMSGType" } ] Time Clock Outbound Changes Get the outbound configuration data using the API below. Verify that all the outbound message types listed below exists. GET API Name: URL/timeclock/api/ServiceDefinition/outBoundMessageType If any of the outbound message types do not exist, add them to the existing data and post it by using the API below. POST API Name: URL/timeclock/api/ServiceDefinition/outBoundMessageType/import [ { "MessageType": "ProductivityMetricEventMSGType", "Transactional": true, "PersistMessageToMsgStore": false, "OutBoundQueues": { "QueueName": "queue.ProductivityMetricEvent" } }, { "MessageType": "UserProductivityMetricEventMSGType", "Transactional": true, "PersistMessageToMsgStore": false, "OutBoundQueues": { "QueueName": "queue.UserProductivityEvent" } }, { "MessageType": "fwPurgeEntity-timeclock", "Description": "Framework Entity Purge", "Transactional": true, "PersistMessageToMsgStore": false }, { "MessageType": "fwPurgeEntityPKRange-timeclock", "Description": "Framework Entity Purge PK Range", "Transactional": true, "PersistMessageToMsgStore": false }, { "MessageType": "fwPurgeEntityStatus-timeclock", "Description": "Framework Entity Purge status", "Transactional": true, "PersistMessageToMsgStore": false }, { "MessageType": "StoreProductivityMetricEventMSGType", "Transactional": true, "PersistMessageToMsgStore": false, "OutBoundQueues": { "QueueName": "queue.StoreProductivityEvent" }, "OutBoundDeliveryConfig": { "OutBoundDeliveryConfigId": "StoreProductivityDedupe", "GroupingType": "DEDUPLICATION", "GroupingKeys": "$.ComputedOn,$.LocationId,$.ActivityRefType,$.ActivityTypeId", "GroupingInterval": "10 minute", "DeduplicationDeliveryMode": "ENDING" } }, { "MessageType": "JobScheduleMsg", "Transactional": false, "PersistMessageToMsgStore": false, "MessageCategory": "systembatch", "OutBoundQueues": [ { "QueueName": "JobScheduleQueue.COMPONENT-TIMECLOCK" } ] }, { "MessageType": "jobStatusMonitorJob", "Transactional": false, "PersistMessageToMsgStore": false, "MessageCategory": "systembatch", "OutBoundQueues": [ { "QueueName": "JobStatusMonitorQueue.COMPONENT-TIMECLOCK" } ] }, { "MessageType": "JobScheduleManagerMsg", "Transactional": true, "PersistMessageToMsgStore": false, "MessageCategory": "systembatch", "OutBoundQueues": [ { "QueueName": "JobScheduleManagerQueue.COMPONENT-TIMECLOCK" } ] }, { "MessageType": "awpf-delayed-payload", "Transactional": false, "PersistMessageToMsgStore": false, "OutBoundQueues": { "QueueName": "awpf-delayed-payload-{:unique.app.code}" } }, { "MessageType": "awpf-track-payload", "Transactional": false, "PersistMessageToMsgStore": false, "OutBoundQueues": { "QueueName": "awpf-track-payload-{:unique.app.code}" } }, { "MessageType": "awpf-consolidate-payload", "Transactional": true, "PersistMessageToMsgStore": false, "OutBoundQueues": { "QueueName": "awpf-consolidate-payload-{:unique.app.code}" } } ] Time Clock Inbound Changes Get the inbound configuration data using the API below. Verify that all the inbound message types listed below exists. GET API Name: URL/timeclock/api/ServiceDefinition/inBoundMessageType If any of the inbound message types do not exist, add them to the existing data and post it by using the API below. POST API Name: URL/timeclock/api/ServiceDefinition/inBoundMessageType/import [ { "MessageType": "ProductivityMetricEventMSGType", "NoOfConsumer": 10, "MinNoOfConsumer": 1, "MaxDesiredInstances": 6, "ScaleUpTimeWindow": 10, "ScaleDownTimeWindow": 20, "ServiceId": "ProductivityEventListener", "InBoundQueues": { "QueueName": "queue.ProductivityMetricEvent" } }, { "MessageType": "fwPurge-timeclock", "NoOfConsumer": 10, "ServiceId": "PurgeService" }, { "MessageType": "fwPurgeEntity-timeclock", "NoOfConsumer": 10, "ServiceId": "fwPurgeEntity" }, { "MessageType": "fwPurgeEntityPKRange-timeclock", "NoOfConsumer": 10, "ServiceId": "fwPurgeEntityPKRange" }, { "MessageType": "fwPurgeEntityStatus-timeclock", "NoOfConsumer": 10, "ServiceId": "fwPurgeEntityStatus" }, { "MessageType": "UserProductivityMetricEventMSGType", "NoOfConsumer": 10, "MinNoOfConsumer": 1, "MaxDesiredInstances": 6, "ScaleUpTimeWindow": 10, "ScaleDownTimeWindow": 20, "ServiceId": "UserProductivityEventListener", "InBoundQueues": { "QueueName": "queue.UserProductivityEvent" } }, { "MessageType": "StoreProductivityMetricEventMSGType", "NoOfConsumer": 10, "MinNoOfConsumer": 1, "MaxDesiredInstances": 6, "ScaleUpTimeWindow": 10, "ScaleDownTimeWindow": 20, "ServiceId": "StoreProductivityEventListener", "InBoundQueues": { "QueueName": "queue.StoreProductivityEvent" } }, { "MessageType": "JobScheduleMsg", "NoOfConsumer": 10, "MinNoOfConsumer": 1, "Idempotent": true, "ExternalIntegrationRequired": false, "MaxDesiredInstances": 6, "ScaleUpTimeWindow": 10, "ScaleDownTimeWindow": 20, "Description": "", "ServiceId": "JobScheduleListener", "InBoundQueues": { "QueueName": "JobScheduleQueue.COMPONENT-TIMECLOCK" } }, { "MessageType": "jobStatusMonitorJob", "NoOfConsumer": 10, "MinNoOfConsumer": 1, "Idempotent": true, "ExternalIntegrationRequired": false, "MaxDesiredInstances": 6, "ScaleUpTimeWindow": 10, "ScaleDownTimeWindow": 20, "Description": "", "ServiceId": "JobStatusMonitor", "InBoundQueues": { "QueueName": "JobStatusMonitorQueue.COMPONENT-TIMECLOCK" } }, { "MessageType": "JobScheduleManagerMsg", "NoOfConsumer": 10, "MinNoOfConsumer": 1, "Idempotent": true, "ExternalIntegrationRequired": false, "MaxDesiredInstances": 6, "ScaleUpTimeWindow": 10, "ScaleDownTimeWindow": 20, "Description": "", "ServiceId": "JobScheduleManager", "InBoundQueues": { "QueueName": "JobScheduleManagerQueue.COMPONENT-TIMECLOCK" } }, { "MessageType": "awpf-delayed-payload", "ServiceId": "PayloadMsgProcessor", "MinNoOfConsumer": 1, "NoOfConsumer": 10, "InBoundQueues": { "QueueName": "awpf-delayed-payload-{:unique.app.code}" } }, { "MessageType": "awpf-track-payload", "ServiceId": "PayloadMsgProcessor", "MinNoOfConsumer": 1, "NoOfConsumer": 10, "InBoundQueues": { "QueueName": "awpf-track-payload-{:unique.app.code}" } }, { "MessageType": "awpf-consolidate-payload", "ServiceId": "ConsolidatePayload", "MinNoOfConsumer": 1, "NoOfConsumer": 10, "InBoundQueues": { "QueueName": "awpf-consolidate-payload-{:unique.app.code}" } } ] Resources for Fulfillment Scorecard Refer to the Store Fulfillment UI resources page. UIs and Entities The configuration UIs mentioned in this document are listed in the following table, along with information to navigate to the API documentation. UI Name Component Group Seed Data Present? Seed Data Profile Store Fulfillment Parameters Fulfillment FulfillmentParameter services Yes Base Services The APIs listed in the following table are referenced in this document. Refer to the API documentation for additional details on each service. Service Component Group Service Endpoint Persist Productivity Event TimeClock Productivity Metrics timeclock/api/timeclock/persistProductivityEvent Troubleshooting Issue Troubleshooting Tip Troubleshoot configuration issues /timeclock/api/timeclock/troubleshoot/storeProductivity with a user from the concerned organization to which the store belongs to