# Picking Process

**Permalink:** fulfillment-picking-process
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Store/Process & Configuration Guides/Store Inventory & Fulfillment/Store Order Fulfillment/Picking/Process
**Content Length:** 56,072 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:04:22.345009

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Store››Process & Configuration Guides››Store Inventory & Fulfillment››Store Order Fulfillment››Picking ››Picking Process Picking Process Picking methodMobile DevicePrinted PicklistPicklist GenerationBuilding Picklist by Selecting Fulfillment(s)Single-Order PickingMulti-Order PickingTeam-Based PickingPick to SlotGrouping and SequencingTaggingDynamic Picking PrioritizationPick Path Optimization On Hand Inventory VisibilityAuto Cancel Picklist Using SchedulerSubmit PicksIntermediate UpdatesResume on Another DeviceFinish Picklist UpdatesPartial Submit PickPush NotificationsExceptionsShortagesSubstitution during PickingOverpickingCancel PicklistIdle Pick TasksOther FunctionalityMenu CountPickup OrdersPickup SlipsStagingFulfillment Outbound EventsRFIDHandheld RFIDOverhead RFIDServices Picking refers to the process in which store associates pick item(s) for store fulfillments. Picking is the first and most time-consuming process that occurs in the store for fulfillments. Highlights of picking process include: Picking by mobile device or paper picklist is supported Picklist generation Pick to Slot - Items are picked to specific slots in the pick cart to consolidate items of the same order. Tagging - Optional process to apply tags based on configurable rules in fulfillment to pick similar fulfillments together. Pick path optimization - Optional functionality to provide associates with item location information and best picking sequence during picking. Picking functionality is primarily handled by the Fulfillment component. To know more on the  picking activity during offline mode, please refer to the Store Offline Support page. Picking method Mobile Device If picking is executed on a mobile device, the picklist (see Picklist Generation) is displayed to the user on the device. Users scan the items and update the quantity picked as they perform the picking. Printed Picklist When mobile devices are not used or available, associates can perform picking using a printed picklist (see Picklist Generation.) Once the physical action of picking is complete, associates report the items and quantity picked on the UI. See them Printing guide for additional information. Note: Even when picking is performed on the mobile device, associates can generate a printed picklist, if desired, to assist with subsequent processing of the fulfillment (i.e., packing.) Picklist Generation Regardless of whether picking is executed via a mobile device or paper, generating a picklist is the first step in the picking process. A picklist contains the list of items to pick from the store shelves. The picklist contains details of the item like image, description, style and so on, along with the quantity required to pick. Fulfillment line instructions, if any, are also included. The 'Find Orders' filter in Prepare Shipments and Prepare Pickups UI supports searching for orders using order number, name, email or phone number. Note: If the item attribute values are updated, (for example, size or color, etc) then update the item's localized data because when the item is created, then localized data gets stored in the ITM_ITEM_T table. Fulfillment instructions are displayed as 'InstructionSubTyp-Instruction text' at the time of preparing pickups as well as preparing shipments. If the PPO is not configured, then items are grouped based on the "Store Department" value. If the Store Department value is NULL, then it shows "Others". In the picklist, items are sorted based on the Item ID. Building Picklist by Selecting Fulfillment(s) Picklists are manually built by associates immediately before picking. Using the List Fulfillments service, associates are presented with a list of orders available for picking, sequenced first by priority and then by created date/time. Orders with the same priority are displayed in the descending order of created date time. A fulfillment-level indication is provided if a fulfillment is at risk of missing its due date (see Manager Dashboard process guide) or has already missed its due date. The fulfillment list can also be filtered by tags (see Tagging.) From the returned list, associates select which fulfillments to include on the picklist. This is handled by the Generate PickList service. Batch size or slot size configuration (see Configuration guide) defines the maximum number of fulfillments allowed per picklist. Users can build a picklist with any number of fulfillments up to the maximum allowed. This constraint can be set based on physical constraints (i.e., shopping cart size) and/or desired workload batch size. Associates have the ability to deselect all the selected fulfillments. This allows an associate to easily deselect the fulfillments that were preselected based on maximum batch size, and manually add in a few priority fulfillments to pick near the end of their shift. This functionality is available for both pickup and shipment orders. Single-Order Picking In some scenarios, retailers (i.e., especially retailers with smaller store layouts and order volumes) may wish to perform picking for one fulfillment at a time. This approach is commonly used to process store pickup orders with quick SLAs. This approach can also be used in scenarios when associates perform special processing or handling related to the picked inventory that is better achieved one order at a time. Note: If the base UOM is not set for the item, then submit pick will fail. Multi-Order Picking In other cases, retailers with larger stores and/or order volumes may wish to pick multiple fulfillments at a time in order to increase picking efficiency. This method is often used for shipments when turnaround times are often not as critical as with store pickups. If the same item is present across multiple fulfillments, the total quantity is consolidated into one line on the picklist. Team-Based Picking Team-based picking allows the picking of multi-line fulfillments to be distributed (split) across multiple associates, enabling picking by department(s) or role. This improves picking efficiency in stores where associates specialize in departments. For example, inventory for a customer order that includes a shirt, watch and jewelry may be in different geographic sections or floors of the store. Using team-based picking, retailers can build picklists of multi-line (and single-line) fulfillments that are split by area. Fulfillment lines are split into different picklists based on tag rules. Once picking is complete, the items are sorted by fulfillment and placed in a staging location (refer to the Sorting process guide for additional information) before packing occurs. Configuration controls whether team-based picking is enabled for shipment and/or pickup orders. Refer to the Picking Configuration guide for additional details. When enabled, team-based picking is initiated by using tag rules during the fulfillment selection for picklist generation. Pick to Slot Pick to slot enables store associates to sort the items of a fulfillment into slots in the pick cart. Within a particular picklist, fulfillments are assigned slots based on their priorities during picklist generation (Slot A/1 being the highest). This logic is handled by the Generate PickList service. This ensures that the higher priority fulfillments are always filled first. Shortages (if any) are always applied to fulfillments with lower priority. If priority is not specified, then slots are assigned based on the fulfillment creation date time. Team-based Picking and Pick to Slot are mutually exclusive.  Only one of the features should be enabled at any given time. When an associate scans an item in the picklist, the system instructs the associate to place the scanned item in the assigned slot. As picking progresses, the items get placed in their respective slots. This greatly simplifies the subsequent fulfillment processes like staging (for pickups) and packing (for shipments), as items are automatically brought together at the end of picking. Consider the following example in which three fulfillments exist with multiple items and are assigned respective slots: Fulfillment Slot Items Quantity FUL01 A White Polo Shirt 1 Pleated Skirt 2 FUL02 B Black Leather Belt 1 White Polo Shirt 2 FUL03 C Black Leather Belt 1 Pleated Skirt 1 Casual Jogger Pant 1 The pick list will be represented for an item as follows: Item Quantity to pick Slot Details White Polo Shirt 3 Slot A - 1 units Slot B - 2 units When an associate scans the first unit of a White Polo Shirt, the system instructs the associate to place the first unit of the item in Slot A. The subsequent 2 scans will instruct the associate to place the item to be placed in Slot B. This process is repeated until all units of all items are picked or shorted and placed in their respective slots. Pick to Slot can be enabled separately for shipments and/or pickups. In addition, if either/both are enabled, tag rules can also be defined to determine which fulfillments to pick to slot. Refer to the Picking Configuration guide for additional details as well as the Tagging section of this document. Grouping and Sequencing Configuration determines whether items on the picklist are grouped by store department or by area (from pick path optimization.) Sequencing depends on the grouping method selected. This applies to both the mobile and paper picklists. Picklist grouping option Groups by Sequences by Required data setup Best suited for Store department Store department value populated on the item Ascending store department Basic - Relies on store department being populated on the item Small format stores Pick path optimization Configured store layout areas Areas are sequenced based on configured area sequence numbers. Within areas, items are sequenced based on a configured item attribute sequence number. Advanced - PPO must be configured Medium or larger format stores Refer to the Configuration guide for additional information. Tagging Tagging allows retailers to group orders by similar attributes based on configurable rules. Picklists can then be created based on tag values to allow similar orders to be picked together. Tagging rules can be defined based on attributes from entities such as the fulfillment, fulfillment line or item. Tags should be configured separately for pickups and shipments. Once successfully tagged, assigned tags are stored in the Fulfillment Line Tag entity. Tagging strategies might include tagging by ship via delivery method, item characteristics or inventory positions. For example, "Same Day", "Two Day" and "Standard" tags could be defined to allow associates to sequence their picking based on ship via/delivery timelines. On the picking UI, tags are sorted alphabetically. Tags can be used to determine which fulfillments to pick to slot. Refer to the Pick to Slot section in this document and the Configuration guide for additional information. Support for several attributes is available out of the box for creating tagging rules, and additional attributes can be added if desired. Refer to the Configuration guide for additional information related to tagging. Dynamic Picking Prioritization Store Fulfillment Priority Tag Rule In the picking UI, fulfillments can be grouped and ordered to associates based on configurable priority groups. This functionality leverages the tagging framework to assign fulfillments to assign priority groups based on special prioritization tags. This functionality exists for both shipment and pickup fulfillments. Refer to the Configuration guide for additional information. Note: A priority group is only displayed on the picking UI if fulfillment exists for the group. On the UI, tag names for fulfillments which are associated with the highest ranked priority group are displayed on a red background. This indicates to store associates that they should be picked before others. If the fulfillment doesn't meet with a priority tag condition, then fulfillment will be tagged with "Others". The "Others" tag group will appear at the bottom of the pick list. Additionally, the priority tags are also shown in the filter section when they are marked as "Show on store UI as filter option" under the priority tag categories. Store associates can apply filter on priority tags. Fulfillment tag names and priority groups can be localized. Note: Priority tag rules can be created only at the organization level. Note: If Dynamic Picking Prioritization feature is enabled, it is recommended that a priority is assigned to every fulfillment so that UI pulls and displays fulfillments ready for picking in the order of priority assigned to them. In other words, fulfillments with null priority may distort the prioritization logic built into the system. Lower priority fulfillments may be assigned lower priorities (higher number means lower priority; max limit for priority group is 999), instead of null, so that they appear at the bottom of the pick list. Reprioritize fulfillments using a scheduler A scheduler can be configured to periodically reprioritize the fulfillments. Refer to the Configuration guide for additional information. Display fulfillment counts by priority In the UI, store associates can view all defined priority groups along with the number of fulfillments in each group. The fulfillments from the highest priority group are displayed first, with the option to scroll to view the remaining fulfillments within the group. If a store associate wants to view fulfillments from a different priority group, the fulfillments from the current group will collapse, and only the fulfillments of the selected priority group will be shown. It’s important not to create a priority group named "Others," as this term is already used for fulfillments that do not meet the conditions of any configured priority tags. If a group is created with the name "Others," the Picking UI may display two priority groups labeled "Others" - one for the retailer-defined priority group and another for the system-defined priority group. This can lead to confusion and result in a fulfillment being listed in both groups. Enable the "SIF - Display fulfillment counts by priority" behavior change to view this change on the picking UI. This feature will automatically be enabled in staging environments on June 15, 2025 and production environments on August 15, 2025 if it is not manually enabled prior to those dates. Pick Path Optimization Pick path optimization enables retailers to provide location information during picking to aid associates in locating items. When used with multi-order picking, this can also provide picks in the best travel route sequence. This functionality is handled by the Pick Path Optimization component. To use pick path optimization, store layout must be defined. This requires the following: Identify a single item attribute to map areas in the store (example attributes include style or store department) Define physical locations in the store, called "areas". Assign sequence numbers to the areas that correspond to the best picking travel route. Map the item attribute values to areas. An attribute value can be assigned to multiple areas, but one area must be defined as the attribute's primary. Assign sequence numbers to the attribute values within each area. Users are able to view the primary area on the pick list UI and one additional area on Item details during picking. Note that if PPO is configured, the picklist grouping configuration flag should be set to group by PPO in order for area grouping and sequencing to be presented to the associate on the picklist (see Grouping and Sequencing.) Refer to the Configuration guide for additional information. On Hand Inventory Visibility Store associates can view the "On Hand" (perpetual) and "Available to pick" inventory levels in the item details to help with searching for items. Available to pick inventory level is calculated by adding ordered units for the item on the picklist to available quantity. For example, if the available inventory of an item is 5 units and the ordered quantity on the picklist is 2 units, 7 units as shown as available to pick. When the "On Hand" (perpetual) and the "Available to pick" inventory are negative, they are shown as 0 units. The Supply Details service shows the inventory details in item details. Note: The "On Hand" and "Available to pick" inventory details remain the same throughout the picking process. However, the resuming of the picklist updates the inventory details. Refer to the configuration guide for additional information. Auto Cancel Picklist Using Scheduler Retailers can auto-cancel the picklist if the picking task is not in progress for some time. It is required to configure the job schedule to auto cancel inactive picklists. After the picklist is generated, if store associates are not performing picking or shorting of any item in the picklist, then based on the configured time, the scheduler auto cancels the picklist. After generating the picklist, if the store associate keeps the browser/device in an idle state or paused pick activity for more than configured time, and after that, if they perform the picking or shorting of items and submit the picklist, then the browser/device shows an error "System Canceled picklist TXXXX. Pick again". For example: The store associate generates a picklist for BOPIS orders at 10 AM. Even after 45 mins (10:45 AM), there was no progress on the picklist. The associate didn’t perform picking or shorting of any item on the picklist in 45 mins. The configured time for auto cancelation for the BOPIS picklist is 45 mins. So, after 45 mins, when the scheduler runs, it will cancel the BOPIS picklist. Retailers can configure the same or different times for auto cancellation of the BOPIS picklist and customer shipment picklist. Refer to the configuration guide for additional information. Submit Picks Intermediate Updates As associates pick items (either from a mobile device or fixed station), each unit picked (i.e., unit scan or unit(s) added action) is synced from the device to save work if the user must pause the picking activity, or a device failure occurs. This is achieved by the Submit Pick service with the isCompletePick attribute set to false. This safeguard is especially important in mobile picking environments since an associate may perform picking over an extended period for a given picklist as they traverse the store. Because progress is saved, the picking activity can be resumed later on the same device or a different device (see Resume on Another Device.) Note that while these intermediate updates are saved to capture progress, updates are not done to the fulfillment until the picklist is marked as finished. Resume on Another Device Because intermediate updates are saved, if an associate must resume a partially complete picklist on another device (due to the original device now in use by another associate, or a device failure), the progress made on the original device is available on the new device until the last saved intermediate update. Note: To resume work on another device, the same user and store must be used. This applies to both mobile and paper-based picking flows. Finish Picklist Updates Once picking is finished for the picklist, the final step is for the associate to indicate that picking is complete. This triggers the Submit Pick service with the isCompletePick attribute set to true. The fulfillment lines are updated with picked and shorted quantities (see Shortages), and the fulfillment line status is updated accordingly. The fulfillment becomes eligible for packing (for shipments) or pick up (for in-store pickups) once this process is complete. See Packing guide or Pickup guide for further information. Partial Submit Pick When picking on a device, if the user scans an item not on the picklist, then a validation error will be shown to the user stating that the item is not on the picklist. Therefore, it is not possible to partially submit a pick task when picking with a device. However, it is possible to partially submit a pick task when using the Submit Pick API. Items on the picklist that are submitted will be updated to Picked status. Items on the picklist that are not submitted will remain in Accepted status and are eligible for a new picking task to be generated. For example, a fulfillment has 2 lines: Line1 for Item1 and Line2 for Item2. If the pick consisting only of Item1 is submitted using the Submit Pick API, then Line1 will be updated to Picked status. Line2 remains in Accepted status and is eligible to generate another picklist. Push Notifications Push notifications can be used to immediately notify store associates of new customer orders that require picking. Associates can navigate directly to the Prepare Shipments or Prepare Pickups screen from the push notification to perform the picking. If the retailer has enabled push notifications, notifications are always sent for new pickup orders that arrive at the store. For ship to home orders, configuration controls whether to send push notifications. Refer to the configuration guide for additional information. Refer to the push notifications document for additional information. Exceptions Shortages If an item on the picklist cannot be picked, associates report the shortage and specify a reason code. For multi-order picking, shortages are applied to fulfillments with the lowest priority until the shortage quantity is exhausted. Fulfillments are sorted by ascending priority, and fulfillments with the same priority are further sorted by ascending created date and time. Note that the priority field is sequenced by ASCII sort. Consider the following example in which three fulfillments exist for the same item with a priority value specified by the Order component: Fulfillment Item Priority Ordered Quantity Shorted Quantity Fulfilled Quantity A White Polo Shirt 20178687 1 0 1 B White Polo Shirt 23998 1 1 0 C White Polo Shirt 2017878 2 1 1 In this example, sorting these fulfillments by ascending priority based on ASCII sort yields Fulfillment A, C, B. During picking, the associate finds only 2 of the 4 ordered shirts. Since fulfillment B has the lowest priority, that fulfillment is shorted. Since 1 unit must still be shorted, the shortage is next applied to Fulfillment C. Fulfillment A is not impacted by the shortage. Substitution during Picking In the event that a store associate is unable to fulfill an item ordered as part of a pickup at store order, they can substitute it with a like or closely resembling alternative if substitution is enabled in their respective store. A substitution can be performed if the store associate fails to find the ordered item in their store due to an incorrect enterprise inventory picture or if the ordered item is found but is not in a sellable condition, thereby reducing order cancellations, protecting store and retailer revenue, and improving customer service. For more details on substitution in stores, refer to its documentation here. Overpicking Overpicking is not allowed. Cancel Picklist If an associate is unable to work on a picklist, the picklist can be canceled. When a picklist is canceled, the associated fulfillments are released and eligible to be included by another picklist. They can be picked by the same associate, or another associate. A picklist cannot be canceled after picking has been completed. The Cancel Picklist (Task group) service triggers the updates. If picking is done by virtue of paper, the printed picklist should be disposed off when the picklist is canceled. Idle Pick Tasks If picking has begun but the pick task has not seen any progress beyond a configured amount of time, the task is considered idle. Idle tasks can be displayed in the Store Exceptions window to notify the store manager who based on permissions can link to the Task Monitoring UI to reassign the task. Refer to the configuration guide and the Task Monitoring process guide for more details. Other Functionality Menu Count The Pending Fulfillment Menu Count service returns the number of pickup fulfillments to be picked for a store, which is displayed on the UI. Similarly, the same service can also return the number of shipment fulfillments to be picked in the store for the UI. Pickup Orders After picking is completed for a picklist, the following processes are available for customer pickup orders. Pickup Slips Users can print the pickup slip immediately after the picklist is completed. Refer to the Confirm Pickup guide for additional details. When an item is substituted, it shows up as “Substitute item (substituted for ordered item)” in the Item column of the out of the box Pickup Slip. For example, if A is the originally ordered item, and it’s substituted by B, it's displayed as “B (substituted for A)”. All other details displayed in the Pickup Slip are those of the substitute item. Note: Manhattan Associates recommends that feature enablement teams ensure that the pickup slips which have been customized using the Fulfillment:Reports:UserExit:setReportInputParams user exit are working as expected after enabling substitution. They are requested to log a support ticket in the case they see any challenges with the slip. For more details on substitution in stores, refer to its documentation here. Staging Users also have the option to stage pickup orders immediately after the picklist is completed. Refer to the Staging guide for additional details. When substitution is involved, the substitute item is displayed, in place of the ordered item, for the substituted fulfillment lines in the Stage Pickups UI. Such lines are also denoted by a red substituted indicator. Moreover, if the store associate taps on such a line, the item details UI also displays the substitute item details along with a substituted indicator. For more details on substitution in stores, refer to its documentation here. Fulfillment Outbound Events Scenario Fulfilllment Event Outbound Message Name Order Event Created from Fulfillment Outbound Message The store has acknowledged that it has enough labor and resources to work on the fulfillment. The fulfillment is accepted. Fulfillment/line status is changed to Accepted Fulfillment Accepted An order event is created with type "Status Update" and status = "3500.000" ("In Process") When an associate has taken the Inventory out of shelf and reserved it for the fulfillment. This indicates that the fulfillment line has been picked. Fulfillment/line status was changed to Picked. The picked quantity on the fulfillment line gets updated Fulfillment Picked An order event is created with type "Status Update" and status = "3600.000" ("Picked") Associate picked and a few units are short. The associate provides a short reason code indicating why the units were short. This indicates that the fulfillment line has been shortened during picking Fulfillment/line status is changed to Picked and cancel quantity on the fulfillment line is updated. Fulfillment Shorted An order event is created of the type "Short" RFID Handheld RFID Store associates can perform picking of shipment and pickup orders by reading unit-level tags with a handheld RFID reader instead of scanning item barcodes. If the RFID tag cannot be read, users have the option to scan EPC or SGTIN barcode, if present. Tags read during the picking process are used to determine which items are being picked. The EPC IDs are not persisted during picking. Once the order is picked, its tags are captured during the RFID Tag Capture process (for pickup orders) or the Packing process (for shipment orders.) Refer to the Store RFID guide for more information on the RFID support available in the Store application and how to enable the configuration. Locate Item during Picking Store associates can utilize a handheld RFID reader if they need assistance locating an item during customer order picking. Refer to the Store RFID guide for more information and configuration information. Note: Up to 100 tags can be located for an item. Tags that exist in the Unit Inventory table in any other status other than "Departed" are eligible for locate item. For more details on how the Locate Item UI functions, refer to the following Store UI help guides: Pickup Orders Shipment Orders Overhead RFID Pick Path Optimization Manhattan Active® Omni can integrate with third-party overhead RFID solution providers. This integration can yield significant benefits to store operations. With the overhead RFID data, picking efficiency can be significantly improved since the picklist is generated based on the latest known location of units for the ordered items. The picklist is created with an optimized pick sequence, and displays the travel path on a map to the associate. The map contains all the pick locations to be traversed in relation to the starting point, which is configurable. The optimization algorithm determines the best units to pick based on the shortest distance required by the picker to pick all the units on the picklist. The shortlisted units are sorted in ascending order of their distance from the starting point, and items are grouped by their current coordinates if clustering is enabled. The units to pick can be anywhere in the store and even outside of their designated department or location. Units that do not have defined X and Y coordinates will be grouped under others section. In the others section, items are sorted by their Item IDs. For more details, refer to the Pick Path Optimization and Configuration sections of the Store RFID guide. View on Map The View on Map function in the Picking UIs allows an associate to view the latest known location of item inventory on a store layout map. This can be used to find the nearest unit of an item, or to locate a unit which isn't where it should be. Refer to the Store Fulfillment UI Resources page to assign the permission needed to enable this function. For more details, refer to the View on Map and Configuration sections of the Store RFID guide. Services The APIs listed in the following table are referenced in this document. Refer to the API documentation for additional details on each service. Service Component Group Service Endpoint Cancel Picklist (Task group) Fulfillment task-group-controller /fulfillment/api/fulfillment/taskGroup/cancelTaskGroup Generate Picklist Fulfillment fulfillment-list-controller /fulfillment/api/fulfillment/fulfillment/generatePickList List Fulfillments Fulfillment fulfillment-list-controller /fulfillment/api/fulfillment/fulfillment/listFulfillments Pending Fulfillment Menu Count Fulfillment fulfillment-list-controller /fulfillment/api/fulfillment/fulfillment/pendingFulfillmentsMenuCount/organizationId/{organizationId}/locationId/{locationId} Submit Pick (intermediate update) Fulfillment fulfillment-process-controller /fulfillment/api/fulfillment/fulfillment/submitpick (with isCompletePick = false) Submit Pick (complete picklist) Fulfillment fulfillment-process-controller /fulfillment/api/fulfillment/fulfillment/submitpick (with isCompletePick = true) Get the Device Coordinates StoreRFID Store rfid services /storerfid/api/storerfid/getDeviceCurrentLocationCoordinates Get RFID Location Coordinates by ItemId Fulfillment fulfillment-list-controller /fulfillment/api/fulfillment/fulfillment/rfid/locationCoordinates Get Item inventory details Inventory Supply Controller /inventory/api/inventory/get/supply/details