# Fulfillment Insights Dashboard

**Permalink:** fulfillment-insights-dashboard
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Order Management/Process & Configuration Guides/Order Processing/Order Fulfillment/Overview/Fulfillment Insights Dashboard
**Content Length:** 40,065 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:57:04.443895

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Order Management››Process & Configuration Guides››Order Processing››Order Fulfillment››Overview ››Fulfillment Insights Dashboard Fulfillment Insights Dashboard Metric DetailsUser Grants The Fulfillment Insights Dashboard provides powerful visuals for a retailer to quickly see how different fulfillment behaviors impact performance related to direct-to-consumer orders. For example, see how fulfillments compare across location types and delivery methods, or see how different location types impact the time it takes to fulfill an order. In addition to organization-specific metrics, the dashboard also displays industry metrics anonymously aggregated across all Manhattan Active® Omni customers. Industry metrics are displayed in blue text to the right of the organization-specific metrics in black on select visuals. The black arrow indicates how the organization compares to the industry. All metrics are refreshed on a weekly basis. Note: The Fulfilment Insights Dashboard is only populated for production environments. All lower environments (stage, VPT, and so on) do not have data populated because computing metrics on test data would not yield relevant results. Begin exploring the Fulfillment Insights Dashboard by selecting a time range at the top of the page. Users can select up to 31 consecutive days (1 month) from the past year. By default, data for the most recent weekly refresh is displayed. See the table below for descriptions of each metric on the Fulfillment Insights Dashboard. Metric Details Completed*: Completed Orders are direct to consumer orders for which all units are either shipped or picked up or canceled. Completely canceled orders are included. Fulfilled**: Fulfilled Orders are direct to consumer orders for which all units are either shipped or picked up or canceled, completely canceled orders are not included. Metric Description Fulfillment Breakdown Displays the percentage of fulfillments by delivery method for Fulfilled orders within the selected date range. Fulfilled orders are defined as orders for which all units are either shipped or picked up or canceled. Completely canceled orders are included. Total Orders Displays the total count and count over time of Completed orders for the selected date range. Completed orders are defined as orders for which all units are either shipped or picked up or canceled. These orders include completely canceled orders. Total Units Displays the total count and count over time of units that are part of Completed* orders for the selected date range. Break up of Fulfillments By Location Type Displays percent breakdown of fulfillments by location type for orders with ShipToAddress delivery method and Fulfilled** in the selected date range. Shipment - Average Time To Fulfill Displays the average time it takes to ship a package for Fulfilled** orders within the selected date range. Time to fulfill is defined as the time between order being released and it being shipped. Average Time To Fulfill = Sum(Time To Fulfill each Package) / Total Package Count Note: The time to fulfill each package is computed using "Event Date" in the ship event. For Distribution Centers and Suppliers, if the ship event does not contain the actual fulfillment date in the `EventDate` field, the system will consider that the package is fulfilled at the moment the ship event is received. If the "Event Date" is present but still less than release date due to any data issues, time to fulfill is considered 0. For stores, if the ship event does not contain the actual fulfillment date in the `EventDate` field or if the "Event Date" is less than the release date due to any data issues, time to fulfill is considered 0. The total package count is the count of all unique packages that were shipped within the selected date range. If package information is not present in the ship event, the system assumes the order was shipped in a single package. If there is a merge shipment for a ship to address fulfillment, time to fulfill will be the total time taken to fulfill all the merge legs and delivery leg and the total package count will be just the package count of the delivery leg. Example: Merge Leg - DCA Ships to DCB - 2 packages took 48 hours to fulfill. Delivery Leg - DCB Ships to Customer - 2 packages took 30 hours to fulfill. Average Time to Fulfill = (48 + 30)/2 = 39. Average Time To Fulfill By Location Type Displays the average time it takes to ship a package by location type for Fulfilled** orders within the selected date range. Time to fulfill is defined as the time between order being released and it being shipped. Example: Below table is a list of releases that were shipped in a day across all locations. Release ID Location ID Package ID Release Creation Date Fulfillment Date Time To Fulfill(in Hours) Release1 Store1 Package1 07/20 5AM 07/20 10AM 5 Release1 Store1 Package2 07/20 5AM 07/20 4PM 11 Release2 Store3 Package3 07/20 10AM 07/20 2PM 4 Release3 Store4 Package4 07/19 6PM 07/20 10AM 16 Release4 DC1 Package5 07/19 4AM 07/20 4AM 24 Release5 DC2 Package6 07/19 6AM 07/20 4AM 22 Release6 DC3 Package7 07/19 4PM 07/20 4AM 12 Release7 DC4 Package8 07/19 5PM 07/20 4AM 11 Release8 DC5 Package9 07/18 8PM 07/20 4AM 32 Release9 Supplier1 Package10 07/15 5PM 07/20 3PM 118 Release10 Supplier2 Package11 07/17 5PM 07/20 4PM 71 With the above data, the following will be the average time to fulfill for each location type: Location Type Calculations Average Time to fulfill(In Hours) Store (5+11+4+16)/4 9 DC (24+22+12+11+32)/5 20.2 Supplier (118+72)/2 95 Shorted During Picking Displays the percentage of units that were shorted during the picking process for Completed* orders with ShipToAddress delivery method within the selected date range. Short Percentage = (Shorted Units / Total Units Released) * 100 Shorts By Location Type Displays the percentage of units that were shorted by location type during the picking process for Completed* orders with ShipToAddress delivery method within the selected date range. See example below where there are a total of 3 orders and 3 locations (Store1, Store2, DC1). This example involves only 2 location types (Stores and DCs). Store1 is the only location that has shorted units in this example. Order Line Units 1st Allocation Shorted Location 2nd Allocation Fulfilled Location 1 1 1 Store1 Store1 DC1 DC1 2 1 Store1 -- -- Store1 2 1 2 Store2 -- -- Store2 2 2 Store2 -- -- Store2 3 1 3 Store1 Store1 Store2 Store2 2 3 DC1 -- -- DC1 The resulting percentage by location is calculated below: Location Shorted Units Total Units Short Percent Store1 4 5 80% Store2 0 7 0% DC1 0 4 0% The final percentage by location type is the average percentage across all locations for each location type. Location type Short % Distribution Centers 0% Stores 33% (4 out of 12) Average Packages per order Displays the average number of packages per order for Fulfilled** orders with ShipToAddress delivery method and within the selected date range. Average Packages per order = Sum(Packages Per Order) / Number Of Orders Cancelled Displays the percentage of units canceled for Completed* orders with ShipToAddress delivery method within the selected date range. Cancelled = (Total Cancel Quantity for ShipToAddress lines)/(Total Order Quantity for ShipToAddress lines) See the example below based on 6 orders that were placed where some units were canceled. In the example below, July 20th is the current date. Order Line Units Cancelled Units Fulfilled Units Comments 1 Line 1 2 2 -- Customer cancelled line 1 during remorse period Line 2 3 -- 3 Line fulfilled 2 Line 1 1 -- 1 Line fulfilled 3 Line 1 1 1 -- Cancelled due to Fraud Line 2 1 1 -- Cancelled due to Fraud 4 Line 1 1 -- -- Not considered in this metric because the order is not completely Fulfilled or Cancelled Line 2 1 -- -- Not considered in this metric because the order is not completely Fulfilled or Cancelled 5 Line 1 1 -- 1 This order was pulled back from store 1 and eventually fulfilled at DC by July 20th. 6 Line 1 1 1 -- This order was placed on July 17th, shorted twice and then backordered and eventually cancelled due to no inventory on July 20th The resulting cancelled percentage is 50%, because 5 units were cancelled, and 10 units are considered in the total. Total Units considered 10 Total Cancelled 5 Cancelled Percent 50% Pickup Breakdown Displays the percentage breakdown for PickUpAtStore and ShipToStore Fulfilled** orders within the selected date range. BOPIS Breakdown Displays percent breakdown of PickUpAtStore units that were either picked up, abandoned, shorted, or canceled for Completed* orders within the selected date range Picked Up refers to the percentage of units that were picked up For example, if 10 single unit orders are ready for pickup, but only 9 orders are actually picked up, this value would be 90% Abandoned refers to the percentage of units canceled after picking because customer did not show for pickup. For example, if 10 single unit orders are ready for pickup, but only 9 orders are actually picked up and 1 order was canceled because of "no show", this value would be 10% Shorted refers to the percentage of units canceled during picking. Cancelled refers to the percentage of units canceled prior to release. Pickup - Average Time To Fulfill Displays the average time it takes to pick a PickUpAtStore fulfillment for all the Fulfilled** orders within the selected date range. Time to fulfill is defined as the time between order being released and picked. Average Time To Fulfill = Sum(Time To Pick Each Fulfillment) / Total Fulfillment Count Note: Time to fulfill each package is computed using "Picked Date" in the fulfillment audit. If the Picked Date is less than Release Date due to data issues, time to fulfill is 0. The total package count is count of all unique Fulfillments that was shipped within the selected date range. If Fulfillment details are not present in the pick/ship event, the system assumes the fulfillment was shipped in a single package. Ship To Store Breakdown Displays percent breakdown of ShipToStore units that were either picked up, abandoned, shorted, or canceled for Completed* orders within the selected date range Picked Up refers to the percentage of units that were picked up. Abandoned refers to the percentage of units canceled after picking because customer did not show for pickup. Shorted refers to the percentage of units canceled during picking of the pickup leg. Cancelled refers to the percentage of units canceled prior to the release of the first leg. Ship To Store Average Time To Fulfill Displays the average time it takes to pick a ShipToStore fulfillment for all the Fulfilled** orders within the selected date range. Time to fulfill is defined as the total time taken to fulfill both the merge and pickup legs of a fulfillment. Average Time To Fulfill = Sum(Time to Fulfill Merge Leg + Time To Pick Each Fulfillment) / Total Fulfillment Count Note: The time to fulfill each package is computed using the following: Merge Leg Time to Fulfill - "Event Date" in the ship event for the merge leg is used. If merge leg is shipping from a Distribution Center or a Supplier, the ship event "Create Date" is used to compute time to fulfill if "Event Date" is not present. If the merge leg is shipping from a store and there is no "Event Date", time to fulfill for merge leg is considered 0. In all these scenarios, if "Event Date" is present but before the release date due to data issues, time to fulfill is considered 0. Pickup Leg Time to Fulfill - "Picked Date" in the fulfillment audit is used. if "Picked Date" is not present or present but before the release date due to data issues, time to fulfill is considered 0. Total Fulfillment Count is computed just based on the pickup leg. Example: Merge Leg - DCA Ships to StoreA - 2 packages took 48 hours to fulfill. Pickup Leg - StoreA receives the package - 2 packages took 2 hours to receive and get it ready for pickup Average Time to Fulfill = (48 + 2)/2 = 25. User Grants The grants below need to be enabled to access the Fulfillment Insights Dashboard: inventoryfacade::insightsdatadashboard::view api::inventoryfacade::insightsmetrics inventoryfacade::industryinsightsdashboard