# Functional Metric Triggers

**Permalink:** functional-metric-triggers
**Content Length:** 6,733 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:39:17.891009

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Administrator Tools&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Common Framework ››Functional Metric Triggers Functional Metric Triggers &nbsp; This application provides a set of&nbsp;metrics to help monitor functional flows.&nbsp; Functional Metric Triggers allow you to create and configure&nbsp;alert notifications&nbsp;on a threshold breach for various&nbsp;events occurring within the system.&nbsp; To create an alert, you&#39;ll first need&nbsp;to configure a functional metric trigger. Configure a functional metric&nbsp;trigger for alerting: The Functional Trigger Alert menu is located in the Cloud Framework section.&nbsp; Navigate to System Management &gt;&nbsp;Functional Metric Trigger in the new tab. The list view is populated with existing functional metric triggers. To create a new functional metric trigger, select the Create action button. Click the Choose&nbsp;Functional Metric button to select from&nbsp;the list of functional mechanics provided by system&nbsp;options&nbsp;to use in creating the trigger alert.&nbsp; Select&nbsp;a Functional Metric&nbsp;template to populate the fields for easy configuration. You can change the values for&nbsp;MinThreshold, MaxThreshold and AlertType as required. Functional Metrics Config Id is a user-provided value. Select an Alert Type of notification and provide the appropriate threshold range and description (optional)&nbsp;for the functional metric. Note:&nbsp;the subscription configuration is performed for an alert type which can be found in the Alerts Menu in the primary tab. Click Save when done. UI Field &nbsp; Description &nbsp; Remarks &nbsp; Functional Metrics Config Id User provided an identifier for the configuration &nbsp; Functional Metric Id The available functional metric used for the trigger configuration It is a list of applications by provided functional metric. It is auto populated based on what functional metric is selected for configuring the trigger. Alert Type The Alert identifier which will be used for triggering notification It is auto populated based on what functional metric is selected for configuring the trigger. Users can override it with any other available alert type. Threshold Min Value The minimum threshold is the value for the given functional metric id. An email or web notification will be sent if the number of occurrences of the event for the metric is below the threshold. example: To monitor the order creation metric&nbsp;every hour and if the creation count is less than 10 then this alert will be raised&nbsp; Threshold Max Value The maximum threshold is the value for the given functional metric id. An email or web notification will be sent if the number of occurrences of the event for the metric is above the threshold. example: For the metric wave_order_failure_count, if the threshold maximum value is 10 then notification will trigger when the number of order failures ((wave) creation )is atleast 10. Functional Metric Description The description of the configuration It is auto populated based on what functional metric is selected for configuring the trigger. Users can override it with any other description.