# Germany

**Permalink:** germany
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Store/Process & Configuration Guides/Point of Sale/POS Classic Guides/POS Classic Fiscalization and Globalization/Germany
**Content Length:** 35,912 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:03:30.496734

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Store››Process & Configuration Guides››Point of Sale››POS Classic Guides››POS Classic Fiscalization and Globalization ››Germany Germany OverviewTerminologyGermany Specific ConfigurationThird party Integration GuidelinesGermany Specific Functional FeaturesCash Point ClosingError handlingReceiptsSupported/Not Supported Features for GermanyServices Overview In Germany, retailers are required to adhere to fiscalization regulations to ensure compliance with tax laws. The European Fiscal Standard Association (EFSTA) oversees this process, while Manhattan Active® Omni POS facilitates compliance by integrating with EFSTA. The EFSTA System serves as middleware to fulfill fiscal requirements for POS systems using a unified interface. To achieve this, Manhattan Active® Omni POS application submits data of a completed transaction to the EFR (EFSTA Fiscal Register) service, with EFSTA acting as the central authority, ensuring the secure signing of transactions through Technical Security Systems (TSS). TSS certification is mandatory, requiring thorough validation procedures to ensure compliance with legal standards. The responsibility for TSS certification is delegated to TSS providers such as Fiskaly. Unlike TSS providers, POS providers are not required to perform the certification process themselves. Manhattan Active® Omni POS applications are required to seamlessly integrate with EFSTA to enable retailers to fulfill their fiscal obligations effectively. This integration ensures transparency, security, and compliance in transactions, thereby maintaining trust with customers and regulatory authorities alike. Overall, the integration of POS applications with EFSTA plays a crucial role in enabling businesses to navigate fiscalization regulations efficiently and maintain financial integrity in their operations. Terminology TSS-Technical Security System TSE-Technical Security Element EFSTA-European Fiscal Standard Association EFR-EFSTA Fiscal Register DSFinV-K-Digital Interface for Financial Management of Cash Register Systems TL -Transaction Location TT -Transaction Terminal Germany Specific Configuration These are the Manhattan Active® Omni POS application configurations required if the store is located in Germany. "EnableFiscal" should be enabled from the Fiscal Business Configuration MUP UI. POS Configuration > Store Currency: Configure both the cart and the back office to work in the EUR currency code. To Set up POS Store Configurations > Store Common Config > “Default Store Currency” = EUR Store Backoffice to be set up as EUR currency, i.e. BO Store Configurations > Store Base Currency = EUR Make sure that Store Currency (e.g. “EUR)” has all denominations set if counting is by denominations, via Backoffice > “Store Currency” and Currency Denomination configurations. POS Configuration > Store Locale: To set up store locale, POS Store Configurations > Store Common Config >Default Store Locale= DE POS Tax Configuration : Configure Tax system as VAT by enabling “Primary Tax as Info” from POS Store Configurations > Store Common Config Order Configuration > Tax Engine -Set up the Tax engine for “mPOSConfig“ as “LocalTax” For tax configurations setup, refer  Local tax guide. Order Configuration > Tax Engine -Set up the Tax engine for “mPOSConfig“ as “Vertex” is also supported. *VAT rates  in Germany are as follows: Standard:19% Reduced:7% Zero:0% To enable "CallFiscal" in the order ModType, please refer to the API details provided below: Enable CallFiscal API: {{url}}/order/api/order/orderConfig/save HTTP Method : POST //Request Payload// { "OrderConfigId": "mposConfig", "ModTypeConfig": [ { "ModType": { "ModTypeId": "Order::Add" }, "CallFiscal": true } ] } The details of the Retailer's Tax ID can be added to the FiscalAttributes using the provided payload below and API details. Retailer TaxID Configuration API: {{url}}/backoffice/api/backoffice/fiscalAttributes/save HTTP Method: POST //Sample Request Payload// { "CountryId": "DE", "AttributeValue": "770012310", "AttributeName": "RetailerTaxId" } To update the register with TL ID and TT ID in FiscalConfig, please refer to the provided sample payload request and API details below to configure this mapping. Register and Store location with Fiscal ConfigurationAPI : {{url}}/devicemanagement/api/devicemanagement/register/save HTT Method : POST // Sample Request to update the Fiscal config// { "FiscalConfig": { "SecurityDeviceId": "<TL>", "ClientId": "<TT>" }, "RegisterNumber": "<RegisterNumber>", "StoreID": "<Location ID>" } Third party Integration Guidelines Integrating a third-party EFSTA solution with  Manhattan Active® Omni POS system involves several key configurations to ensure seamless functionality and compliance with fiscal regulations. Retailers are required to configure the following details in the KV store for fiscalization purposes: FiscalServiceProvider=EFSTA (Default value is EFSTA) Fiscal.Config = [ { "url": "https://efr.efsta.net", "apiKey": "efr-manhattan97038tests001-de", "apiSecret": "shun9xuos4iemohM8tai5ohnoodooTiechiel9UP4eizee", "countryId": "DE" } These configurations include the URL of the EFSTA service, API key, API secret, and country ID of Germany (DE). Retailers must update the API Key and API Secret with the new value after their initial setup in EFSTA. These details are essential for establishing a connection with EFSTA and facilitating fiscalization processes within the POS system. This URL, API key, API secret, and FiscalServiceProvider parameters are dynamically configured in the KV store to accommodate any third-party service provider. This flexibility allows retailers to seamlessly integrate with any third party fiscalization service provider as needed. Pre-configuration setup required in EFSTA: For German fiscalization, retailers need to undertake several pre-configuration settings within EFSTA. Firstly, they must have certified Technical Security Device (TSE) which is a Fiscal Unit with EFSTA. During the setup of the EFR, TL ID (Transaction Location) and TT ID (Transaction Terminal) will be assigned to the EFR and EFR will be assigned with Fiscal Unit and TL and TT must be mapped to the register and store location in the Manhattan Active® Omni POS system. EFSTA documentation link: https://public.efsta.net/efr/#/DE/ Germany Specific Functional Features Cash Point Closing The "cash point closing" in EFSTA typically refers to a report generated at the end of a business day summarizing the transactions processed through the Manhattan Active® Omni POS Application Register. This report includes details such as total sales, taxes collected, discounts applied, payment methods used (cash, card, etc.), and any other relevant financial information.The Cash point closing process involves the generation of structured electronic data in compliance with the technical specifications outlined in the DSFinV-K by the German tax authorities for transmitting financial information between cash register systems and tax authorities. Manhattan Active® Omni POS System will process the cash point closing at the register level through the Job Scheduler. The cash point closing job is expected to be executed at the end of the day after the store closes. Users must ensure that the cron expression (Job Schedule time) is configured accordingly to run after the store's closing time. Below are the payload and API details required to configure the Cash Point Closing Job Schedule: Cash Point closing Job Schedule (Adjust the CronExpression accordingly) API: {{url}}/backoffice/api/batch/jobSchedule/save HTTP Method: POST //Request Payload// { "JobScheduleId": "CashPointClosingJobSchedule", "JobTypeId": "cashPointClosingJobType", "CronExpression": "0 00 02 * * ? *", "TimeZone": "Europe/Paris", "TriggerKey": "CashPointClosingJobTypeTrigger", "IsDisabled": "false", "JobParameters": [ { "InputKey": "CountryId", "InputValue": "DE" } ] } Before initiating the cash point closing for a specific register, the cash point closing job will conduct a check for any failed transactions. If any failed transactions are found, the cash point closing job for that register will be skipped during the current run and will be processed during the subsequent job run. Once Manhattan Active® Omni POS system submits the cash point closing to EFR, it will generate the DSFinV-K exports. Error handling The Manhattan Active® Omni POS application manages failures encountered during the fiscalization process of transactions. Errors can occur during submission to the EFR or while awaiting a response. In such instances, the application updates the status to "Failed" and generates a receipt without fiscal signature details, marking it as "TSE is Offline". During the Reconciliation Job, the system will look for failed transactions and retrieve fiscal information from the EFR to verify transaction data availability. If present, it updates fiscalized data in the Manhattan order database. However, if transaction data is absent in the EFR, the system resends the transaction for fiscalization. This re-sending process occurs during the job reconciliation process, which is scheduled to run every hour. If the Manhattan Active® Omni POS system successfully communicates with EFR but EFR fails to connect with TSE, EFR sends a response with a message indicating TSE failure. For such transactions, the Manhattan Active® Omni POS system generates a receipt indicating "TSE is Offline". Receipts Receipts in Germany must include additional details keep up with the German Fiscal regulations. These details consist of the retailer's Tax ID and a QR code for orders that have been fiscalized. If the MAO system is unable to communicate with the EFR, or if the EFR is unable to communicate with the TSE, the receipt will be printed with the message "TSE Offline." The sample receipts for Germany is found here. Supported/Not Supported Features for Germany Below is the list of features which are supported and not supported in Germany by Manhattan Active® Omni POS application, where : ✅ : Supported and Fiscalized : Supported But Not Fiscalized ❌ : Not Supported Feature Status Sales flow with cash, Credit card, Debit card, Personal cheque,Traveller's check, Gift card ✅ Sale transaction using foreign currency cash ✅ Sale transaction by activating customer ✅ Sale transaction with guest check out ✅ Sale transaction by linking sale associate ✅ Sale transaction with price override ✅ Sale transaction with one or more quantities ✅ Sale transaction with line void or mid-void ✅ Sale transaction with mid-payment void ✅ Sales flow with VAS ✅ Sales flow with non-merchandise items ✅ Void Transaction ✅ Sale with transaction/ line discounts ✅ Sale with Promo ✅ Tax Override ❌ Tax Exempt ❌ Return with receipts-Return from single order/multiple order ✅ Return with receipts-Return Ship To Address, Pick up In Store orders created from POS - single order/multiple order ❌ Return with receipts-Return e-com Ship To Address, Pick up In Store orders in store ❌ Return with receipts-Return e-com Ship To Address, Pick up In Store along with POS sale orders in store ❌ Return Refund to same tender paid originally or any other tender irrespective of original payment ✅ Return with receipt, but return has restocking or other fees ❌ Blind Return ✅ Return without Receipt ❌ Exchange -customer is returning item/items and buying new items in the same return transaction ✅ Print/Email Receipt ✅ Print/Email Gift Receipt Reprint receipts from historical transactions ✅ Reprint receipt of last transaction on the register ✅ Reprint Gift receipt Re-send email of receipts ✅ Resend Gift receipt Gift Card activation ✅ Gift Card Reload ✅ GC Balance inquiry Gift Card Cash Out ❌ Back Office-Store Open Back Office-Store Close Back Office-Till Open ✅ Back Office-Till Reconcile ✅ Back Office-Till Reconcile Variance ✅ Back Office-Bank Deposit Manager Function-No Sale Manager Function-Pay In ✅ Manager Function-Pay Out ✅ Manager Function-Till Loan ✅ Manager Function-Till Pick up ✅ Suspend/Resume ❌ Omni Transaction-Sale with InStore purchases and Ship to Address lines ❌ Omni Transaction-Pick up at store lines ❌ Omni Transaction-Ship to Store lines ❌ Omni Transaction-Buy Online, Pick up in Store + Purchase more while in store ❌ Order deposits, i.e. Pay in partial deposits ❌ quote ❌ Post void ❌ Exchange Tender, I.e. exchange 2 gift card and issue 1 gift card ❌ Price Check ❌ Offline Transaction-Standalone transaction creation without internet connectivity ❌ Out of Order, Manual Transaction ❌ The features which are not supported should be controlled via grants or Business Flags. Refer to Configuration and Resources guide for more details on the configurations. Additional configurations are noted below: In Germany GC cashout is not supported.  Business Flag : POS general configuration >>Common Configuration >> Gift card cashout threshold=0 Services The APIs listed below are related to German Fiscalization at Manhattan Active® Point Of Sale and are referenced in this document. Refer to API documentation for additional details on each service. Service Component Group Service Endpoint FiscalConfig Order FiscalConfig {{url}}order/api/order/fiscalConfig OrderConfig Order OrderConfig {{url}}order/api/order/orderConfig Job Scheduler batch Job Scheduler {{url}}/backoffice/api/batch/jobSchedule Trigger Adhoc batch Job Scheduler {{url}}/backoffice/api/batch/jobSchedule/triggerAdhoc fiscalAttributes Backoffice fiscalAttributes {{url}}/backoffice/api/backoffice/fiscalAttributes Fiscal Process Backoffice Fiscal Process {{url}}/storefacade/api/storefacade/backoffice/fiscal/processFiscal jobTypeDefinition batch jobTypeDefinition {{url}}/backoffice/api/batch/jobTypeDefinition register devicemanagement register {{url}}/devicemanagement/api/devicemanagement/register/save *The fiscal guidelines and numbers (annual turn over, tax rates) are as of Jan-2024, which might be subjected to change as per local laws.