# Gift Receipt

**Permalink:** giftreceipt-2
**Content Length:** 6,896 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:35:30.389836

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Point of Sale&rsaquo;&rsaquo;POS Guides ››Gift Receipt Gift Receipt &nbsp; Generating Gift ReceiptLimiting Reprints for ReceiptsGenerating Gift Receipts from Order Details - Reprint functionElectronic Journal - Reprint Function Sometimes, customers decide to purchase items and present them to their friends or family. In such scenarios, most of the time, they prefer to handover a sales receipt which can help them return or exchange the items. This receipt does not necessarily have to have all the price and tax details. It instead can have the minimum details which can be used by a store associate later to retrieve the order for possible returns. POS provides this ability in the form of Gift Receipt. During order creation, associates can have the specific items selected which the customer intends to present as gifts and generate the gift receipts for them. &nbsp; Generating Gift Receipt &nbsp; Note - POS Store Config &gt; Receipt Config &gt; &ldquo;Order Gift Receipt&ldquo;&nbsp; -&nbsp;This&nbsp;business flag is now deprecated.&nbsp; POS only supports value of True.&nbsp; At the time of receipt printing, user with appropriate grants&nbsp;can decide to generate Gift Receipt by selecting the GIFT RECEIPT toggle.&nbsp; At receipt time, when the associate selects the option for the Gift receipt, all the items are pre-selected with isGift= True flag by default. However, users can deselect/select individual items in the dropdown if desired. The items that are selected are marked as isGift=True. There is an associated counter which allows the users to decide the number of gift receipts they need to generate. The minimum count on this is set to 1. The maximum number of gift receipts the user can generate is the sum of the quantities added against each item. For example: There are 3 items added in the Cart. Item A, Item B, and Item C with quantities 2, 5 and 9, respectively. The total number of gift receipts that the user can print is 2+5 +9 = 16. However, in the case of email, the user always gets a single copy as an attachment &ndash; one for Transaction Receipt and one for Gift Receipt. &nbsp; Note:In this process, the items are marked as isGift-=True after the order is already created and it is on the receipt screen. There is no way to send this detail in the outbound for the specific order as the order is already confirmed. As such, the initial Confirmation sales posting will still show the item as isGift set to be false, but the Order data will retroactively change to True for those order lines. &nbsp; This&nbsp;&#39;generic&#39; gift receipt contains the customer&rsquo;s name, and the order number. It does not include any item, price, or tax details.&nbsp; See sample Gift Receipt.&nbsp;&nbsp;In a return scenario using that receipt, the entire order is retrieved.&nbsp; &nbsp;There is nothing selective at item level about the functioning of either Item or Order Gift Receipts during return. The user can also generate a Gift Receipt when they Reprint a receipt, from the historical Transaction Detail. &nbsp; Limiting Reprints for Receipts The physical print of a receipt is a configuration-driven functionality. The business flag Receipt Max Quantity in the POS Store Config&gt;&gt;Receipt Config decides the number of times the receipt can be re-printed. This can be configured by businesses as per their requirements. This business flag primarily decides the number of times the Transaction Receipt can be printed.&nbsp; &nbsp; Generating Gift Receipts from Order Details - Reprint function Users can reprint receipts for transactions from Order Details screen, accessed from Transaction Search feature.&nbsp;&nbsp; At this time user can choose to print a Gift Receipt for any items, even if Gift Receipts were not originally selected for that item.&nbsp; On printing gift receipts for such items, the order is retroactively updated with the items being marked as Gift Item. &nbsp; Electronic Journal - Reprint Function The electronic journal records the gift receipt action against the order record. Each Order line that is marked as a Gift receipt is captured in the Electronic Journal.&nbsp; Similar to Order Details reprint, from the Electronic Journal users can re-print Gift Receipts for items which were not originally selected for Gift Receipt during the order creation and on printing gift receipts for such items, the order is retroactively updated with the items being marked as Gift Item. &nbsp; Note: Reprint action from either Order Details or EJ feature does not automatically print Gift Receipts unless specified, even for items which originally were Gift Items. &nbsp;