# Gift Receipt

**Permalink:** giftreceipt
**Content Length:** 12,999 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:35:39.780280

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Point of Sale&rsaquo;&rsaquo;POS Classic Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;POS Order Selling&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Selling ››Gift Receipt Gift Receipt &nbsp; Items qualified for Gift ReceiptGenerating Gift ReceiptProcess Flow 1 - Gift Receipts with Item ReferenceProcess Flow 2 Order Gift Receipts with no Item ReferenceLimiting Reprints for ReceiptsElectronic JournalConfiguration RequiredProcess Flow 1Process Flow 2Resource IDs for Process 1 Sometimes, customers decide to purchase items and present them to their friends or family. In such scenarios, most of the time, they prefer to handover a sales receipt which can help them return or exchange the items. This receipt does not necessarily have to have all the price and tax details. It instead can have the minimum details which can be used by the store associate to retrieve the order. POS provides this ability in the form of Gift Receipt. During order creation, associates can have the specific items selected which the customer intends to present as gifts and generate the gift receipts for them. Items qualified for Gift Receipt Any item that is added to the Cart must match the conditions below to generate the gift receipt. &bull; Item must be a merchandise item. &bull; Item must not have already been returned. &bull; Item must not have been cancelled. &bull; Item is not voided. Generating Gift Receipt There are two different process flows which can be used to generate these Gift Receipts.&nbsp; Process Flow 1 - Gift Receipts with Item Reference In this process, the users are allowed to mark the items as Gifts while on the Cart screen. There are two ways to do this &ndash; one is by swiping to the left on the item and selecting the Gift Receipt and the other way is by using the Modify button and selecting the Gift Receipt option. However, the constraint with this flow is that the users must decide in advance (before Order Confirmation and the actual Receipt Printing) as to which items are intended for Gift Receipt generation. Once the item is marked as Gift, the orderlinedetail is updated with the isGift=True Once the order is created and payment is completed, there is no way to come back and retroactively mark the items as Gift. On completion of the order, the application generates 2 types of receipt. One is the Transaction Receipt which has all the customer details, item details with price, tax and so on. Another type is one or more gift receipts(s), one for each marked item. The gift receipt contains the customer&rsquo;s name, SKU, item description and the order number. It does not include any price or tax details. Although item descriptions/skus are shown on these Gift Receipts, in a return scenario, using that receipt, the entire order is retrieved for Matching - there is nothing selective at item level about the functioning of Gift Receipts during return. Process Flow 2 Order Gift Receipts with no Item Reference There is an alternate flow wherein the customers can generate Gift Receipt at the end of the order creation flow. This flow is controlled using business flags (POS Store Config &gt; Receipt Config &gt; &ldquo;Order Gift Receipt&ldquo; = True), which is enabled by default and UI grants (ui::posservice::ordergiftreceipt).&nbsp; In this flow, users do not have to think ahead of time about marking the items as gifts. Instead, the application provides an option at the end of the transaction when the user is navigating to the receipt screen. On the Receipt screen, users can select to print Gift Receipt. There is an associated dropdown menu which highlights all the items that have been added to the order. This item list comprises only merchandise items. &nbsp; Note:In this process, the items are marked as isGift-=True after the order is already created and it is on the receipt screen. There is no way to send this detail in the outbound for the specific order as the order is already confirmed. As such, the initial Confirmation sales posting will still show the item as isGift set to be false, but the Order data will retroactively change to True for those order lines. At receipt time, when the associate selects the option for the Gift receipt, all the items are pre-selected with isGift= True flag by default. However, users can deselect/select individual items in the dropdown if desired. The items that are selected are marked as isGift=True. There is an associated counter which allows the users to decide the number of gift receipts they need to generate. The minimum count on this is set to 1. The maximum number of gift receipts the user can generate is the sum of the quantities added against each item. For example: There are 3 items added in the Cart. Item A, Item B, and Item C with quantities 2, 5 and 9, respectively. The total number of gift receipts that the user can print is 2+5 +9 = 16. However, in the case of email, the user always gets a single copy as an attachment &ndash; one for Transaction Receipt and one for Gift Receipt. This new &#39;generic&#39; gift receipt contains the customer&rsquo;s name, and the order number. It does not include any item, price, or tax details. As with &#39;item&#39; Gift Receipts, in a return scenario using that receipt, the entire order is retrieved for Matching - there is nothing selective at item level about the functioning of either Item or Order Gift Receipts during return. Genericizing the gift receipt with this Process Flow 2 allows for a more intuitive flow to be used at the end of the transaction, and this means that the associates do not need to try to link each Gift Receipt with any specific item(s). If 3 items are going to 3 different recipients, 3 generic &#39;Order&#39; gift receipts can be printed and with no item reference on them, any of them can go &#39;in the bag&#39; with any of the three items &ndash; there is no need to match them. &nbsp; Limiting Reprints for Receipts The physical print of a receipt is a configuration-driven functionality. The business flag Receipt Max Quantity in the POS Store Config&gt;&gt;Receipt Config decides the number of times the receipt can be re-printed. This can be configured by businesses as per their requirements. This business flag primarily decides the number of times the Transaction Receipt can be printed. However, if the user wishes to re-print only the Gift Receipt, the count check is bypassed. If both transaction and gift receipt are selected for re-print, then the application considers this count configuration and does not allow the user to print the receipt. An error message is displayed to tell&nbsp;that the maximum number of re-prints has been reached, and no more prints are allowed. The functionality is the same for Process 1 and 2. If the user wishes to print only the Gift Receipt, they can do so multiple times and there is no upper limit for the re-prints. Electronic Journal The electronic journal records the gift receipt action against the order record. Each Order line that is marked as a Gift receipt is captured in the Electronic Journal. Whenever the user reprints any of the order lines, the Gift Receipt Reprint is updated as true. There is an additional update in Process Flow 2 where the isGift=True is also captured. Users can re-print Gift Receipts for items which were not selected for Gift Receipt during the order creation. On printing gift receipts for such items, the order is updated again with the items being marked as Gift Item. Configuration Required Note - Customers should decide whether they wish to enable Process Flow 1 - the current flow with preselected item gift receipts, or Process Flow 2 - new flow with gift receipts selectable at the end.&nbsp;Customers should NOT enable both flows simultaneously. If Flow 2 is required, the business flag and grant must be enabled.&nbsp; Process Flow 1 There is no specific configuration required for this process flow. The base supports marking the item as Gift and creating a receipt. There are a few grants associated with the flow which are highlighted later in the document. Process Flow 2 The generation of the Gift receipt is driven by a business flag POS Store Config &gt; Receipt Config &gt;&gt; Order Gift Receipts. In addition to the business flag, there is a grant which is associated with displaying the option to print the Gift Receipt on the Receipt screen. If the business flag is enabled, but the grant is missing, the users will not see the Gift Receipt option on the Receipt screen. Resource IDs for Process 1 The resources below are required to use the new Item Gift Receipt flow/functionality. Resource ID Purpose ui::posservice::itemgiftreceipt Showing gift option in Swipe/ More Menu ui::posservice::transactiongiftreceipt Showing gift Option in More Menu overrideaccess::posservice::itemgiftreceipt Manager Permission Resource IDs for Process 2 The below resource is required to perform the new Generic Gift Receipt flow/functionality. Resource ID Purpose ui::posservice::ordergiftreceipt The resource allows the display of a gift receipt option on the print/reprint receipt screen when the business flag is enabled. &nbsp;