# Global Parameters

**Permalink:** global-parameters
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning/UI Help/Configurations/Global Parameters
**Content Length:** 48,204 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:10:08.011712

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning››UI Help››Configurations ››Global Parameters Global Parameters Previous I Next Overview Overview Global Parameters UI lists all the functional parameters of the Supply Chain Planning application and allows users to update the parameters with required values. Component Attribute Description Inventory Optimization Order Display Packaging UnitOfMeasure1 Used to display Order totals with required packaging UOM on Suggested Orders UI (Total packaging UOM1) Order Display Packaging UnitOfMeasure2 Used to display Order totals with required packaging UOM on Suggested Orders UI (Total packaging UOM2) Order Display Packaging UnitOfMeasure3 Used to display Order totals with required packaging UOM on Suggested Orders UI (Total packaging UOM3) Inventory Demand Type Inventory demand types used to aggregate the supply quantity. Inventory Demand Type On Hand Inventory demand types of type on-hand used to aggregate the supply quantity. Real Time Allocation Enabled Enables allocation to be triggered automatically when supplies are interfaced Inventory Movement Segment Export Enabled Configuration to turn generation of Inventory Segment export ON: Inventory Segment Interface is generated when a Supply is Released OFF: Inventory Segment Interface is NOT generated Default Segment Id Inventory Segment to which the unallocated quantity should be added to while displaying the segment plan. Maintain Supply By Inventory Attribute1 This flag determines if inventory is classified and maintained by the value of inventory attribute 1 on the supply. EnableLeadTimeForecast This configuration is used to enable or disable the LeadTime Forecast feature. The default is 'true'. EnablePOProjForVendorRelationships This configuration is used to enable PO projection for vendor relationships. The default is 'true'. EnableRealTimeTransfer Business configuration is used to enable or disable real-time transfer. The default is 'false'. EnableTransfer Business configuration is used to enable or disable transfer. The default is 'false'. Allocation ProductLocationPhaseProductHierarchyId The item hierarchy is used in item location phase configuration. It is also used while searching for the current phase for an item location. KPICalculationMethodId The method used for KPI calculation EstimatedSellThroughDays Estimated Sell Through Days. Used in KPI calculation in Allocator's console AllocatorAssignmentProductHierarchyId Item Hierarchy used for Allocation Assignment RealTimeAllocationEnabled If the realtime allocation is enabled, then when supplies are interfaced, the allocation is automatically triggered. ExternalOrganizationId When orders are released, this external organization id is sent as part of the order header to transmit the message into the specified organization queue. DefaultChannelId The channel which unallocated inventory is added to when inventory segment message is published. InventorySegmentExportEnabled This configuration decides if the inventory segment messages need to be published to an Inventory Segment queue to transmit to an external system. AutoAllocateASNUsingPORatio If enabled, when ASN supply is received for an existing PO which is not cancelled, then the ASN is allocated using the same allocation ratio as the PO supply. PullBackOrderType This field specifies the order type that needs to be populated in the release order and sent to the external system for pullback orders. DCAllocationsOrderType This field specifies the order type that needs to be populated in the release order and sent to the external system for DC Allocation orders. TransferOrderType This field specifies the order type that needs to be populated in the release order and sent to the external system for Transfer orders. NeedAdjustmentProductHierarchyId The item hierarchy that is used in need adjustment configuration. NeedAdjustmentLocationHierarchyId The location hierarchy used in need adjustment configuration. LocationPrioritySortOrder Determines the location priority sort order (ascending/descending) during allocation when the Allocation Strategy prioritizes locations with higher margin (e.g., ascending for markdown, descending for markup). StopAllocationThreshold The maximum markdown or minimum markup at a location on which the item will not be allocated. AggregateAllocationMetricPlanTypeMetricTypeId Associates Plan Id and Metric Id that will be used for Aggregate Plan NumberOfWeekToAggregateSales Determines number of weeks of sales that will be aggregated for Aggregate Plan Metric. AllocatorAssignmentLocationHierarchyId Location hierarchy to be used to assign teams for managing allocations. AllocatorAssignmentLocationHierarchyLevel Location hierarchy level to be used to assign teams for managing allocations. UseSizeProfilesForNeedComputation This configuration determines whether size profiles are used for need computation OrderCurrency Currency associated with the order TranslateOrderToMAOFormat Set this parameter to TRUE when Allocation is deployed and integrated with OMNI. Item Location Admin This configuration is used to define the admin team for network access view. GradeItemHierarchyId The item hierarchy that is used in item location grade configuration. ConstraintItemHierarchyId The item hierarchy that is used in item location constraint interface and inheritance. SizeProfileItemHierarchyId Item Hierarchy that is used in size profile policy configuration ConstraintLocationHierarchyId The location hierarchy that is used in item location constraint interface and inheritance. LocationAccessGroup.hierarchyId The location hierarchy that is used in item location access filter configuration. ModelStoreItemHierarchyId The item hierarchy used in model store configuration. ModelStoreItemLevelId The Item hierarchy level used in model item configuration. EnableNetworkViews This business configuration is used to enable the network access view. The default is 'false'. EnrichFirstSaleDateEnabled Enables enriching first sale date on Item-location update. The default is 'false'. EnrichAllItemLocationAttributes Determines if all item location attributes (Grade, Constraint and SizeProfile) are enriched when the Item Location Enrichment scheduled job runs. If this parameter is set to FALSE, then only Grade will be enriched. ModelMetricsComputationThreshold Specifies how many weeks the model metric values need to be computed and used once a new Item Location becomes active. ForecastingNotificationEnabled Enables Forecasting Notification. Plan ProductAttributes Item attributes to be added in the plan index LocationAttributes Location attributes to be added in the plan index EnrichAttributesOn Determines if item, location, and item location attributes on plans are to be enriched. AggregatePlanMetricLocationHierarchyId The location hierarchy that is used in Aggregate Plan. It also determines the location hierarchy for aggregating allocation metrics, which could be used in Auto Submit/Approval rules. AggregatePlanMetricLocationHierarchyLevel The location hierarchy level at which the Aggregate Plan will be set up/interfaced Metric ProductAttributes Item attributes to be added in the metric index LocationAttributes Location attributes to be added in the metric index EnrichAttributesOn Determines if item, location, and item location attributes on metrics are to be enriched. Size Profile MetricTypesForChangeNotification Metric types considered for populating First Sale Date on Item Location and Aggregate Plan Metric. SizeProfileProductHierarchyId The item hierarchy that is used in size profile policy configuration. Demand Forecasting RetailMetricTypeId The Metric Type ID for Demand Forecasting LCF.Alpha The Alpha Value used to calculate the forecast LCF.Beta The Beta Value used to calculate the forecast LCF.Gamma The Gamma Value used to calculate the forecast LCF.Lambda The Lambda Value used to calculate the forecast LCP.SmoothingLength The number of weeks over which smoothing is done on similar item-location demand volatilities during the life cycle profile generation. LCP.Epsilon The Epsilon Value used in calculating Weighted Average Deactivation Week LCP.LaunchDateDurationMinStdMeasureValue The desired minimum time window for finding similar item-locations with a similar launch or activation week. Example: similar item-locations should have an activation date within +/- 4 weeks of the target item-location’s activation week. LCP.LaunchDateDurationMaxStdMeasureValue The desired maximum time window for finding similar item-locations with a similar launch or activation week. Example: A minimum of 4 weeks translates to a maximum of 16 weeks (42, the square of the minimum number of weeks) LCP.LifeCycleDurationMinStdMeasureValue The desired minimum lifecycle or selling duration for finding similar item-locations with similar lifecycle durations. Example: similar item-locations should have lifecycle durations within +/- 4 weeks of the target item-location’s lifecycle duration. LCP.LifeCycleDurationMaxStdMeasureValue The desired maximum lifecycle or selling duration for finding similar item-locations with similar lifecycle durations. Example: A minimum of 4 weeks translates to a maximum of 16 weeks (42, the square of the minimum number of weeks) LCP.TotalLifeCycleDemandMinStdMeasurePCT The desired minimum windows for finding similar item-locations with similar total lifecycle demand. Example: similar item-locations should have total lifecycle demand within 50-200% of the target item-location’s lifecycle demand. LCP.TotalLifeCycleDemandMaxStdMeasurePCT The desired maximum windows for finding similar item-locations with similar total lifecycle demand. Example: similar item-locations should have total lifecycle demand within 50-200% of the target item-location’s lifecycle demand. LCP.ZeroDemandWeight The weight for zero demand week while calculating Bass Coefficient LCP.MhatInitialValue The estimated total demand initial value that is used in Bass Diffusion while calculating Life Cycle Profile LCP.MhatMaxValue The estimated total demand maximum value that is used in Bass Diffusion while calculating Life Cycle Profile LCP.MhatIncrementValue The estimated total demand incremental value that is used in Bass Diffusion while calculating Life Cycle Profile LCP.PCoefficientInitialValue The innovation coefficient initial value while calculating bass coefficient. The Coefficient represents “innovators”, consumers who will buy the target item because they want to be on the cutting edge. LCP.PCoefficientMaxValue The innovation coefficient is the maximum value that is used in Bass Diffusion while calculating Life Cycle Profile. The Coefficient represents “innovators”, consumers who will buy the target item because they want to be on the cutting edge. LCP.PCoefficientIncrementValue The innovation coefficient increment value that is used in Bass Diffusion while calculating Life Cycle Profile. The Coefficient represents “innovators”, consumers who will buy the target item because they want to be on the cutting edge. LCP.QCoefficientInitialValue The imitation coefficient initial value that is used in Bass Diffusion while calculating Life Cycle Profile. The Coefficient represents “imitators”, consumers who will buy the target item simply because others were buying the same item. LCP.QCoefficientMaxValue The imitation coefficient is a maximum value while calculating bass coefficient. The Coefficient represents “imitators”, consumers who will buy the target item simply because others were buying the same item. LCP.QCoefficientIncrementValue The imitation coefficient has an incremental value while calculating bass coefficient. The Coefficient represents “imitators”, consumers who will buy the target item simply because others were buying the same item. Replenishment AdjDelayMin Configuration value that specifies if the manual minimum should be used in the delay computation. Default is false. CalculateDayOfWeekLeadTimeForecast Configuration to enable or disable day of week LeadTime forecast feature. Default is 'true'. DailyDemandProjectionsEnabled Configuration values to enable the persistence of Demand Projections at a daily level, so that they can be used to derive the Planned Demands to be used in the BuildToBracket computation. Default is 'false'. EmergencyTransferMinPartialFillPercentage Configuration value for minimum partial fill percentage during emergency transfer. EnsureReceiptByModelSetDate The parameter ensures that the required inventory as defined in Planogram configuration is available by the activation date of Planogram. The system considers the Minimum and Maximum values for SOQ calculation "N" days before the Activation date of Planogram where "N" is calculated Offset value. MaintainInventoryExpirationAttribute Configuration the default Inventory Attribute. ModelSetBufferDays Configuration value Planogram Buffer Days OverstockTransferMinPartialFillPercentage Configuration value for minimum partial fill percentage during OverStock transfer. Default value is '100'. PlanogramDrivenModelSetReplenishment The SOQ computation happens only when one of the Planogram is Active. Default is 'false'.