# Global Search

**Permalink:** globalsearch-process
**Content Length:** 17,614 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:35:40.559280

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Point of Sale&rsaquo;&rsaquo;POS Classic Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;POS Order Selling&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Other/Transaction Support&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Global Search ››Global Search Global Search Global SearchItem SearchExact Match Item Search&nbsp;Configuring Product Search Results:Customer SearchOrder SearchConfiguring Global Searches Global search provides the ability to access different searches and results from anywhere in the application. With this functionality, a user no longer has to navigate away from the current task to do a quick lookup of an item or customer/order&nbsp;and return to the task. Additionally, users can access various functionalities from the search results. Once a search is invoked, the number of matching results are displayed. If no results are found for a search, the user can choose to clear the search entry field and try again, or cancel the search and continue&nbsp;to the screen from which the global search was&nbsp;initiated. Note: Search is by keyword, such as customer last name, item description, or order creation date. Note:&nbsp;The search function currently supports only one wildcard character: &#39;*&#39;. Item Search The results are displayed as a matrix view, with the searched by keyword highlighted on each result. Items are displayed at the product style level. The user can choose to cancel the search at any time and continue to the screen from which the search was initiated. The user can also choose to scan an item barcode and search for a specific item ID.&nbsp;In this case, system navigates to item details screen with searched item selected.&nbsp;Along with this, other sizes and colors within the style get listed.&nbsp;If the search results in single product ID,&nbsp;system navigates to item details screen, with the first size and color in the sequence selected. If you need to enable search by other attributes like UPC , you can use APIs to add it to the search configuration. Note that if you want to make&nbsp;ItemCode.UPC field searchable, this is how it should be setup. Also, item should be re-indexed for the changes to take effect. { &quot;IndexedEntity&quot;: &quot;Item&quot;, &quot;Component&quot;: &quot;Item&quot;, &quot;SearchAttributeConfig&quot;: [ { &quot;RelevancyScore&quot;: 12, &quot;SearchIndexTypes&quot;: &quot;item&quot;, &quot;MatchType&quot;: { &quot;MatchTypeId&quot;: &quot;Phrase&quot; }, &quot;AttributeType&quot;: { &quot;AttributeTypeId&quot;: &quot;IdField&quot; }, &quot;AttributeName&quot;: &quot;ItemCode.Value&quot; } ] } &nbsp; Item Attributes displayed are: Item image Item short description Lowest current selling price &nbsp; Exact Match Item Search&nbsp; Exact Match item search returns only items that meet all of the words included in the search. For example, if the user searches for &#39;Blue Youth Sandals&#39;, the system will only return items that include all three words: Blue + Youth + Sandals. In the example of Blue Youth Sandals, it excludes all items such as &#39;Youth Hockey Socks&#39;, &#39;Blue Youth Shorts&#39; as the search criteria is not met.&nbsp; The Exact Match item search also supports partial word match, meaning if the user searches for &#39;Child&nbsp;Hat&#39;, the system will return the item &#39;Children&#39;s Hat&#39;.&nbsp; To perform an Exact Match search, the following configuration is required on the Search V2 Configuration for the Item record: set the Score Type ID to &#39;MultiMatch&#39;.&nbsp; Configuring Product Search Results: Within the POS store common configuration is the ability to configure the product search results. If no configuration is set, the default sort of None will remain. Retailers can configure a default sort as well as a default sort direction.&nbsp; Tiebreaker sorting can be set as well to determine which items to show when the initial sort results have a tie Sorting can be configured based on item attributes, such as Availability, Price, etc A separate configuration exists within the POS Store common configuration to allow retailers to exlude items from appearing in the results if the pricing is Null or Empty.&nbsp; This can be used to prevent items from being added to an order before the pricing files are updated, or when new items are created without a price. Available Actions: Tap on the item to navigate the user to the Item Details screen. Tap and hold the item image to display the menu where the user can quickly configure the item to add to the customer&#39;s order, workspace or wishlist. Tip: When no configuration exists, users can choose to sort the results alphabetically by item description or selling price. When a configuration does exist, the sort options will display based on the configured attirbutes. User can choose a different sort order, or None. Customer Search There are two ways to search for a customer: Simple or Advanced.&nbsp; Note: To enable the advanced search, there are two configurations in POS Geneal Config &gt; Customer Config.&nbsp; One is to enable advanced search and the other is to make it the default way of searching. Users can choose to toggle back and forth on the UI between the two types of searches as needed.&nbsp; Simple search is a single entry box in which a user can enter key words, such as the customer&#39;s first name and last name. The list shows a default sort by customer&#39;s last name, with the search by keyword highlighted on each result. Advanced search allows users to enter specific customer information into discrete search fields.&nbsp; The first name and last name entered must be exact, or no results will be found. Email and phone numbers will display partial matches if the entered information is not complete. Note: Additional customer attributes, such as loyalty number can be added as a search field via extension point.&nbsp; The attribute must be indexed in the search component before any results will be found when using these fields to search. Users can choose to cancel the search at any time and continue to the screen from which the search was initiated. Customer Attributes displayed in the results list are: Customer first name Customer last name Email address Phone number If any attributes are unavailable, the attribute name will not be displayed in the results. Available Quick Swipe Actions: View: Navigates to Customer Management Make Active: Activates the customer, but user remains on the global search result list Carry Forward Search Information: In the event that no results, or no matching results, are found, users can choose to &quot;Add New Customer&quot;. The entered information will be carried forward into the new customer form as follows for both simple and advanced search Simple Search If the @ symbol is anywhere in the entered information, the entry will be carried into the email field on the new form, If the entered information is numeric only, or is numeric with a + symbol, the entry will be carried into the phone number field on the new form. If there is a single alpha numeric word, the entry will be carried into the last name field in the new form. If there are two alpha numeric words with a space between them, the entry will be carried into both the first and last name fields in the new form Advanced Search: All base fields: First name, last name, email and phone will be carried forward into their respective fields Email field entry does not require an @ symbol to be carried forward Custom search fields will not carry forward. &nbsp; Tip: Users can choose to sort the results by the following: alphabetically by customer name, alphabetically by customer email address, or by last purchase date. Note: When the Business Flag &quot;Mandate Search Before Adding New Customer&quot; is set to True, the Add New Customer button on the Customer Search field remains disabled until the user runs a search on existing customer. The screen displays a label &quot;Please search for a customer before adding one&quot;. Order Search The list will show a default sort by order number, with the searched by keyword highlighted on each result. User can choose to cancel the search at any time and continue to the screen from which the search was initiated.&nbsp; The user can also choose to scan an order barcode, and the order is displayed in the results list. Order Attributes displayed are: Order number Order creation date Order total value Available Quick Swipe Actions: More: Displays the order details overlay Reprint Receipt: Navigates to the process receipt screen where the user can choose to email or print the customer&#39;s receipt Tip: Users can choose to sort the results by the&nbsp;order total value or creation date. Configuring Global Searches The attributes indexed for searching and their relative priority may be configured via the Config-UI/API: Masterdata &gt; Manage Search Configuration &gt; Configure Search Service Config-UI Name Component Group Service Endpoint Seed Data Present? Seed data profile SearchConfig Manage Search Configuration &ndash; Configure Search Search Search Config Controller search/api/search/searchConfig &nbsp;Yes &nbsp;Base &nbsp; The&nbsp;fields mentioned in the table above are displayed as-is in items/customers/order search results. Component Service/Entity Attribute Order Order Services OrderID Order Order Services CapturedDate Order Order Services OrderTotal Customer Customer Services CustomerId Customer Customer Services lastName Customer Customer Services firstName Customer Customer Services phone Customer Customer Services email item Item Services Description item Item Services ShortDescription item Item Services SmallImageURI PricePromo Item Price Controller SellingPrice &nbsp;