# Localization Configuration 

**Permalink:** globalization-config-2-2
**Content Length:** 19,663 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:35:38.225853

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Point of Sale&rsaquo;&rsaquo;POS Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;POS Fiscalization and Globalization ››Localization Configuration Localization Configuration ConfigurationsPOS and backoffice ConfigurationsSetting up locale,&nbsp;currency, and currency formattingCurrency/Cash RoundingPOS Tax ConfigurationReceipt ConfigNot Supported for VAT countries&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;Services To run business globally, customers must meet country/region -specific requirements for tax compliance and local business practices. This concept is referred to as localization.&nbsp;This space will highlight the generic configuration required to localize and enable&nbsp;the Store app to checkout POS transactions. &nbsp; Configurations POS and backoffice Configurations Setting up locale,&nbsp;currency, and currency formatting POS Store Config&gt;Store Common Configuration and Backoffice &gt; Backoffice Store Configuration settings Store currency Configuration Configure both the cart and the backoffice to work in the {local} currency code.&nbsp; These two fields must be completed with valid 3 character ISO currency code - for example: EUR,&nbsp;USD,&nbsp;CAD, MXN and so on.&nbsp; CART CURRENCY - Set up POS Store Configurations &gt; Store Common Config &gt; &ldquo;Default Store Currency&rdquo;, for example:&nbsp;EUR BACKOFFICE CURRENCY - Configure Store Backoffice&gt;Backoffice Store Configuration&gt;Store Base Currency&nbsp;currency, i.e. BO Store Configurations &gt; &quot;Store Base Currency&quot;, Make sure that Store Currency (e.g. &ldquo;EUR)&rdquo; has all denominations setup if counting is&nbsp;by denominations, via Backoffice &gt; &ldquo;Store Currency&rdquo; and Currency Denomination configurations. If a country needs rounding for cash to a specific denomination, then we follow the currency/cash&nbsp;rounding&nbsp;section below. Store Locale Configuration POS Store Configurations &gt; Store Common Config &gt; Default Store Locale. The store locale is a code which identifies the language and country.&nbsp; This field must be completed with a locale code as defined in the MAO Organization&gt;Locales entity, not necessarily a standard ISO or Windows locale code. Currently there are 25+ supported country locales. For example, US/English = en, France/French = fr, English/UK = en-GB and so on. Store application transactions, currency formatting, date/time formatting&nbsp;across the application is picked based on configured locale. Enable Currency Formatting T/F This switch from Classic POS is essentially deprecated but is enforced for RECEIPT printing. Whether TRUE or FALSE,&nbsp;&nbsp;amount fields will be shown in the STORE LOCALE format, with currency symbol appropriate to CART CURRENCY on all POS SCREENS. When TRUE,&nbsp; appropriate currency symbol will be printed on amount fields on RECEIPTS. When FALSE, currency symbol will NOT BE printed&nbsp;on RECEIPTS.&nbsp; This allows the retailer to conserve space on printed receipts. &nbsp; Since these three switches work together, here are some use cases to illustrate the result.&nbsp; The highlighted row is the initial default seed data for the Store product.&nbsp; Note that in the event of a mis-match between the STORE CURRENCY and the STORE LOCALE, extra information is shown with the currency symbol to indicate which locale it represents.&nbsp; For example, 100.00 in US dollars can be shown as $100.00 (currency and locale both US) or&nbsp;US$100.00 (currency USD but locale Canada) or 100,00 $US (currency USD but locale France). &nbsp; posStoreConfig&gt;storeCommonConfig&gt; posStoreConfig&gt;storeCommonConfig&gt; posStoreConfig&gt;storeCommonConfig&gt; Sample amount +1500.75 or -1500.75 DefaultStoreCurrency DefaultStoreLocale (note - in the schema this field is called defaultStoreLanguage) -&nbsp;KEY: en = English-US, en-CA = English-Canada, fr = French-France Enable Currency Formatting EXPECTED Sample Amount appearance in EVERY amount/price field on POS screen and Receipt USD en TRUE $1,500.75 USD en FALSE Screens&nbsp;$1,500.75 Receipt 1500.75 USD en-CA TRUE US$1,500.75 EUR en TRUE &euro;1,500.75 EUR fr TRUE 1 500,75 &euro; USD fr TRUE 1 500,75 $US USD null or invalid (i.e., disneyland, en-US) TRUE 1500.75 EUR null or invalid (i.e., disneyland) TRUE 1500.75 CAD en-CA TRUE $1,500.75 CAD en TRUE CA$1,500.75 CAD en TRUE -CA$1,500.76 &nbsp; &nbsp; Currency/Cash Rounding This provides the ability to round off - either round down or round up to the nearest allowed currency denomination. This is required if a certain denomination is phased out in some countries or is not in prevalence through some legal act.&nbsp;To handle this in the POS system, retailers can specify the lowest acceptable denomination under currency denomination settings. This is not applicable for transactions processed using other payment types such as check, credit card, and so on . Rounding is applied at the end of the payment process, on the entire order, not on an individual item or payment or action. For example, if nickel is the lowest acceptable denomination in Canada, after phasing out pennies. Individual charges such as Discount/Tax amount can result in pennies as the currency itself allows this.&nbsp;Typical rounding logic is applied on the balance while making payment with cash, which may result in rounding up or rounding down the actual balance due. Hence, it may benefit the retailer&nbsp;and&nbsp;the customer on different occasions.&nbsp; For example, in a country whose lowest cash denomination is the nickel, if the customer owes 0.76 and pays the retailer 0.75 in cash, POS will be configured to consider the balance 0.00.&nbsp; Customers need not provide the extra 0.01 In the same country, if a customer owes 0.78 and pays 0.80, POS will be configured to consider the balance 0.00 and a retailer need not provide 0.02 change. Configuration:&nbsp;The following configurations are required to enable the currency rounding in&nbsp;Manhattan Active&reg; Omni POS application. Basic level of configuration :&nbsp; POS Store&nbsp;Config&gt;&gt;Store&nbsp;Common&nbsp;Config&gt;&gt; Enable Currency Rounding. This is the basic Business Flag configuration which should be enabled to active currency rounding. This is a mandatory configuration without which the rounding does not take place even if other relevant flags&nbsp;are enabled. Base currency Setup in Manhattan Active&reg; Omni POS Cart and Back Office : It is required to setup the store base currency under Back office and POS store config. This determines the currency to which the rounding is applied. Ensure that the default store currency is configured correctly in both the POS Store and Back Office configurations. Backoffice configurations&gt;&gt; Store configurations&gt;&gt;Store Base Currency POS Store&nbsp;Config&gt;&gt;Store&nbsp;Common&nbsp;Config&gt;&gt;Default Store Currency Set up the Backoffice Denominations : The currency denomination supported needs to be configured in Backoffice configurations&gt;&gt;Store Currency &gt;&gt;Currency Denominations. This configuration determines the precision to which rounding takes place, with rounding occurring to the lowest denomination values. It is necessary to configure this for each currency supported. Users cannot proceed if the entered amount does not comply with the defined denominations. Payment Type configuration for Bookkeeping: For bookkeeping purposes, it&#39;s essential to create a payment type with specific attributes to account for rounding discrepancies. The rounded amount is handled by creating a payment transaction using a pseudo-tender &quot;Rounding Adjustment&quot;, to balance the books both for reporting and on receipts. Rounding in transactions may result in either rounding up or rounding down, causing the retailer to either charge more or less than the actual order total.Therefore,there is a need to create a payment type with certain specific attributes, described below. Payment Types :Payment&gt;&gt;payment Types&gt;&gt; Add RoundingAdjustment Payment Configuration : Payment&gt;&gt;Payment Configuration&gt;&gt; Add RoundingAdjustmentConfig Payment Rules : Payment&gt;&gt;Payment Rules&gt;&gt; Add RoundingAdjustmentRule Payment Capture Config : Payment&gt;&gt;Payment Capture Config&gt;&gt; Add RoundingAdjustment Configurations to display the Rounding Adjustment : Enable the Business Flag POS Store&nbsp;Config&gt;&gt;Store&nbsp;Common&nbsp;Config&gt;&gt;Enable Currency Formatting. This will help to display the Rounding Adjustment. To get the systemically created Rounding Adjustment in to Electronic Journal, the following configurations are required: EJ Mod Type and EJ Mod Type Mapping POS Tax Configuration Countries across the world have several tax regimes.&nbsp;The Manhattan Active&reg; Omni POS supports various&nbsp;tax schemes. These taxes are calculated and documented during sales&nbsp;and return&nbsp;transactions. Periodically, they must be reported and paid to tax authorities. Tax schemes supported by MAO, configured for 3rd party tax engine/local tax&nbsp;include VAT&nbsp;tax regime US taxes or non VAT taxes Canada GST/PST (read more about configuration here) Follow the configuration below if the country supports the VAT tax system. POS Store Configurations &gt; Store Common Config &gt; &ldquo;Primary Tax as Info&rdquo; should be TRUE. For&nbsp;US taxes or countries with non-VAT taxes :&nbsp;&ldquo;Primary Tax as Info&rdquo; should be FALSE. Tax Engine = Vertex or Local tax&nbsp;can be configured from the below. Order Configuration &gt; mPOS Config &gt; Tax &gt; Tax Gateway Receipt Config Literals for the Receipt templates are available as base language packs.&nbsp; Localized receipts in base supported locales&nbsp;should be available with no additional work for customers who have adopted the base receipt .jrxml templates&nbsp;as of Release 23.3. See the MAO&nbsp;Translation guide for more info. &nbsp; Country compliant receipt templates are picked based on countryId from&nbsp;location/store address.&nbsp; It is required to populate&nbsp;each stores address&nbsp;with countryId.&nbsp; If this is not populated then it will be defaulted to US receipt template. &nbsp; Local tax configuration Tax Engine =&nbsp;Local tax Local tax rates should be defined for a country and/or location. The &ldquo;VAT Tax Code&ldquo; should be defined when required to define&nbsp;local tax rates. Without this, receipts would always pick the VAT code on the fly but the data would not be persisted. &ldquo;Enable Persistent VAT Tax Codes&ldquo; should be enabled under &ldquo;pos store configurations&ldquo; &gt; &ldquo;Receipt config&rdquo;. This is only required in France. More detailed configurations of local taxes can be found here:&nbsp;Local tax Not Supported for VAT countries&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; Below are operations which are not supported by VAT countries. Tax exemption and tax overrides&nbsp;are not&nbsp;supported&nbsp;features. Services The&nbsp;APIs listed below&nbsp;are related&nbsp;to localization&nbsp;at Manhattan Active&reg; Point Of Sale and are referenced in this document.&nbsp;Refer to API documentation for additional details on&nbsp;each service. Service Component Group Service Endpoint POS Store Configuation posservice POS General Config services posservice/api/posservice/posStoreConfig BO Store Config backoffice Store Configuration Services backoffice/api/backoffice/storeConfiguration Location organization&gt;location Location Services organization/api/location