# Grade Configuration

**Permalink:** grade-configuration-2
**Content Length:** 5,835 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:36.901804

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Configurations&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Grade Configuration ››Grade Configuration Grade Configuration &nbsp; Grade ConfigurationFiltersCreating a GradeEditing a Grade&nbsp;Field Description Grade Configuration enables the user to specify store ranking based on certain KPIs. This ranking is applicable for an item category. This configuration is used in prioritizing the allocation across stores. By using grades, stores can be grouped to manage the process of planning/allocation.&nbsp;The system admin will use&nbsp;this page to&nbsp;create a new grade or edit an existing grade. For example, Grade - A Description - All stores with sales more than $100k; Grade - B Description - All stores with sales more than $75k and less than $100k and so on. &nbsp; &nbsp; Filters The&nbsp;grade configuration&nbsp;filters are: Grade Id Description Creating a Grade To create a new grade: &nbsp; Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Configuration&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Grade Configuration&nbsp; Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Click&nbsp;Create&nbsp;to view the Grade&nbsp;window. &nbsp;Enter the Grade Identifier. &nbsp;Enter the Description of the grade. Click Save. Editing a Grade&nbsp; To edit grade: &nbsp; Swipe-out List Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt; Configuration &gt; Grade Configuration Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Select the required grade record. Swipe-out the menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Edit. In the&nbsp;Grade&nbsp;window, modify the required fields. Click&nbsp;Save&nbsp;to save the modified grade details. Edit View Select the required grade&nbsp;record card. The action buttons are displayed in the footer section. Click&nbsp;Edit&nbsp;to view the&nbsp;Grade&nbsp;window to&nbsp;modify the required information. Field Description Following are the field descriptions of the attributes available on the screen. &nbsp; Field &nbsp; Description &nbsp; Grade Id The grade identifier. Description The description of the grade. &nbsp; Action Buttons Following are the action buttons available on the screen. &nbsp; Select All Rows Selects all the rows of records on the screen. Export Exports the list of grade attributes, the file will be downloaded onto your system. View&nbsp;Export&nbsp;for more information. Create Opens the Grade&nbsp;window.&nbsp; Deselect Clears the selected records. Edit Opens the relevant&nbsp;Grade&nbsp;window to modify the created records.