# Home Page Customization

**Permalink:** home-page-customization
**Content Length:** 7,392 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:39:48.619289

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Administrator Tools ››Home Page Customization Home Page Customization Home Page CustomizationOverviewConfigurable Home Page StylesCustom Home Page ImageConfigurationHome Page Style SelectionCustom Image URLProvisioning Profile Overview This document outlines the configurable styles available for the application's home page. The home page appearance is determined by three configurable options that control the functional sections of the application and some specific, corresponding&nbsp;menu links displayed to users after login. Additionally, a custom image URL can be configured to override the default home page image. Configurable Home Page Styles There are three configurable options for the home page style: Landing Page Style Description Page Contents Page Image&nbsp; B2C Business to customer. This option contains menu entries for general business to customer functions. This is the default option. If no landing page style is configured, this landing page style is treated as B2C. Contact Center Enterprise Configuration Store Store Configuration Analytics B2B Business to business. This option contains menu entries for general business to business functions. Enterprise Promise and Fulfill Enterprise Configuration B2BAndB2C Business to business and business to customer. This option contains menu entries for general for both business to business and business to customer functions. Enterprise Promise and Fulfill Enterprise Configuration Contact Center Store Store Configuration Analytics Custom Home Page Image A custom image URL can be configured to override the default home page image. Allowing for personalization of the homepage with branding-specific visuals. Configuration Home Page Style Selection Manage List UI Configuration → List UI Configuration&nbsp;→ Select Default Config&nbsp;→ Select Landing Page Style Option from drop-down Custom Image URL Manage List UI Configuration → List UI Configuration&nbsp;→ Select Default Config →&nbsp;Populate Accessible Image Link for&nbsp;Omnifacade Home Image Provisioning Profile Home page customization (List UI Configuration) is owned by the "omf::config" profile purpose. The appropriate profile ownership is assigned to the required organization. &nbsp;