# How to Configure Supply Profiles

**Permalink:** how-to-set-up-supply-profile
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Order Management/Process & Configuration Guides/Enterprise Inventory/Inventory/How to Configure Supply Profiles
**Content Length:** 26,023 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:54:05.772568

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Order Management››Process & Configuration Guides››Enterprise Inventory››Inventory ››How to Configure Supply Profiles How to Configure Supply Profiles Previous | Next OverviewInventory Related Profile PurposeSharing of Inventory across OrgTypical Org and Inventory Set up Implementation FlavorsSample Inventory & ATC Profile set upRelated Articles Overview Profiles are typically used for data sharing and Data switching. Data Sharing: The concept of profile helps organizations share certain set of data for certain purpose without having to duplicate the data. Data Switching: It enables us to switch data between different sets of profiles based on the business needs. Refer to the Profile guide for more details. Typically only the configuration data (and not transactional data) are profile based. Only exception is Supply as supply can be shared across different organizations. Supply can be shared between the organizations that want to cross fulfill with each other. For example, if a customer order from US can be fulfilled from a store in Canada then the inventory related profiles should be shared between these two organizations. Inventory Related Profile Purpose Profile Purpose Description inv::supply This functional group represents configuration for transactional data like Supply, Sync, Reservation and Availability. Defining these as a functional group allows sharing of Supply and Availability information within the organization hierarchy. Recommendations - Profile associated with the Profile Purpose "Supply" should NOT be changed. inv::atc This functional group represents configuration for ATC View Definition, ATC View Configuration, ATC View Rule set and ATC View Protection. inv::supplyConfiguration This functional group represents configuration for Inventory Item, Supply Types, Demand Type, Disposition and Sync. Note: Item profile purpose is itm::item and Inventory Item profile purpose is inv::supplyconfiguration. If supply configuration profile purpose is not shared between parent and child org then Inventory Item needs to be defined separately at Parent and Child level. Example - itm::item : profile purpose points to ORG for both parent and child org. So essentially you see the same item from either of the orgs. inv::supplyconfiguration : profile purpose points to individual orgs. And hence two different items here at parent and child. inv::locationconfigurtaion This functional group represents configuration for Location Capacity, Scheduling, Location performance etc. inv::capacity This functional group represents configuration for Inventory Capacity. inv::batch Profile purpose for batch related framework entities like jobschedule, jobTypeDefinition etc Each org in the hierarchy should have its own profile for inv::batch. Sharing this across orgs in the hierarchy can result in the duplicate outbound messages issues since both the orgs will have visibility to the same job schedule. inv::messaging Profile purpose used for messaging related framework entities like inboundMessageType, outBoundMessageType etc. inv::processDefinition Profile purpose used internally by framework during message processing. inv::rules Profile purpose used by framework to read rules data. Sharing of Inventory across Org Supply can be shared across orgs within the same hierarchy. In this case, the profile purpose inv::supply should be pointing to the same profile id. For example, if we have two orgs : ParentOrg with profileId "ParentProfile" and ChildOrg with profileId "ChildProfile", and, if the requirement is to share the supply present at ParentOrg with ChildOrg, the inv::supply profile of the child org should point to "ParentProfile". This set up helps the child org to not only see the parent org inventory, but also will be able to perform supply allocations etc as well. Also, if any supply event is sent at child org, the inventory affected will be at parent level. Following profile purposes should be always defined at the same level (org) inv::supply inv::atc inv::supplyConfiguration inv::locationconfigurtaion Typical Org and Inventory Set up Organization set up Inventory Shared? Sample Org/Profile set up Single Org - Single Brand/Country Inventory specific to the Brand/Country Inventory Profile - Single Org Multi Org - Multiple countries (Flavor 1) Inventory not shared by countries Inventory Profile - Multi Country (Flavor 1) Multi Org - Multiple countries (Flavor 2) Inventory shared between countries in Region 1 Inventory shared between countries in Region 2 Inventory Profile - Multi Country (Flavor 2) Multi Org - Multiple countries (Flavor 3) Inventory shared between all regions/countries Inventory Profile - Multi Country (Flavor 3) Multi Org - Multiple brands and countries (Flavor 1) Inventory shared across ORGs  (across Brands) Inventory Profile - Multi Brands and Country (Flavor 1) Multi Org - Multiple brands and countries (Flavor 2) Inventory shared across ORGs within a Brand Inventory Profile - Multi Brands and Country (Flavor 2) Multi Org - Multiple brands and countries (Flavor 3) Inventory shared across ORGs within a Region (across Brands) Inventory Profile - Multi Brands and Country (Flavor 3) Multi Org - Multiple brands and countries (Flavor 4) Inventory shared between few Brands and specific to certain Brands Inventory Profile - Multi Brands and Country (Flavor 4) Implementation Flavors Sample Inventory & ATC Profile set up Consider the following organization set up Org Details: Parent Organization - Corporate/HQ Countries are defined at Child level - US and Canada Brands are defined at Grand Child level under US and Canada (US-Brand1, US-Brand2, Canada-Brand1, Canada-Brand2) Inventory: Inventory shared among ORGs - Brands under Canada Org share the Inventory, ATC Inventory not shared among ORGs - Supply is not shared between US-Brand 1 and US-Brand 2 Profile Details: Org Id Profile Id Corporate Corporate US US US-Brand 1 Brand 1 US-Brand 2 Brand 2 Canada Canada Canada-Brand 1 Canada-Brand 1 Canada-Brand 2 Canada-Brand 2 Provisioning Profile: Org Id Provisioning Profile Id Active Corporate Corporate TRUE US-Brand 1 US-Brand 1 TRUE US-Brand 2 US-Brand 2 TRUE Canada-Brand 1 Canada-Brand 1 TRUE Canada-Brand 2 Canada-Brand 2 TRUE Provisioning Profile Details: Provisional Profile Id Profile Id Profile Purpose Comments US-Brand 1 US-Brand 1 inv::supply inv::atc, inv::supplyConfiguration inv::locationConfiguration Supply, ATC is specific to US Brand 1 US Brand 1 points to their own profile US-Brand 2 US-Brand 2 inv::supply inv::atc, inv::supplyConfiguration inv::locationConfiguration Supply, ATC is specific to US Brand 1 US Brand 1 points to their own profile Canada-Brand 1 Canada inv::supply inv::atc, inv::supplyConfiguration inv::locationConfiguration Supply, ATC is shared between Canada Brand 1 and Canada Brand 2. Supply, ATC is defined at Canada org level and Canada Brand 1 and Canada Brand 2 points to Profile "Canada" Multiple ATCs views can be created at Canada org level with brand specific Items/Locations Canada-Brand 2 Canada inv::supply inv::atc, inv::supplyConfiguration inv::locationConfiguration Related Articles Supply SyncHow Supply WorksRest APIs & User ExitsAudit & ArchiveTroubleshootingOverviewInfinite InventoryReapportionment SegmentationHow Future Supply worksPublishing Inventory