# Status Update Events

**Permalink:** how-does-status-update-event-work
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Order Management/Process & Configuration Guides/Order Processing/Order Fulfillment/Order Events/Status Update Events
**Content Length:** 70,323 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:57:36.874615

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Order Management››Process & Configuration Guides››Order Processing››Order Fulfillment››Order Events ››Status Update Events Status Update Events Previous I Next Status Update Order EventsSample API for Status Update EventsStatus Update Event ValidationsHow to Use Order Events for Delivered Status UpdateStatus Update Event ImpactsImpacts on the Order ComponentOM and SIF IntegrationImplementation FlavorsExtended StatusConfiguration for Moving Units to an Extended Status via Order EventHow to Test Extended Statuses Via Order EventHow to create a new order pipeline for a specific order type using rule conditionsTroubleshootingUnable to set up extended status eventType for extended order status with orgUser tokenUnable to update the status of digital goods lines from fulfilled to deliveredReturn tracking number is not saved when extended statuses are added after the 'Fulfilled' statusRelated Article(s) Status Update Order Events Status Update events are sent from the fulfillment system to indicate various stages the quantity moves while trying to be fulfilled. For example, in a store fulfillment flow, the store associate accepts the quantity for fulfillment, and then walks to the location to pick the item and finally packs the item before the carrier picks it for delivery. Note: It is recommended to include the Release ID, Release Line ID, Order ID, and Order Line ID in the status update payload to ensure the update is correctly applied to each corresponding order and line item in the group, especially when the same tracking ID is used for the consolidated shipment and status update. Sample API for Status Update Events Sample API for Order Event - Status Update { "ExternalMessageId": "CC10424", "OrganizationId": null, "OrderEvent": [{ "ExternalMessageId": "CC10424", "EventTypeId": "StatusUpdate", "OrderId": "CC10424", "OrderLineId": "1", "ReleaseId": "CC104241", "ReleaseLineId": "1", "StatusId": "3500", "Item": "Tops-13153-Blue-L", "Quantity": 1, "UOM": "EACHES", "OrderLineAdditional": { "PickupExpiryDate": "2021-05-27T14:34:28.155" }, "FulfillmentInfo": { "PackageId": "ZPKG000000214", "PackageDetailId": "ZPKG000000214", "TrackingNumber": "1Z12345E0205271688", "ShipViaId": "STD", "ServiceLevelCode": "Ground", "ModeId": "Test", "CarrierCode": "UPS", "ShipmentId": "CC10424", "FulfillmentId": "CC10424", "FulfillmentDetailId": "CC10424", "GiftCardNumber": "123456789", "GiftCardPin": "12345", "SerialNumber": "123456789", "ReturnTrackingNumber": "787810", "Extended": { "storeassociatephonenumber": "12345" } }, "StoreInteraction": { "OrderId": "CC10424", "PickedUpDate": "2020-08-31T10:15:30", "StoreAssociateId": "admin@globalorg100-us.com", "LocationId": null, "CustomerFirstName": "John", "CustomerLastName": "Smith", "CustomerPhone": 14704852213, "CustomerEmail": "john.smith@manh-dev.com", "Extended": null, "CustomerId": "JS1001" }, "InventoryAttributes": { "CountryOfOrigin": "US", "BatchNumber": null, "ProductStatusId": null, "InventoryTypeId": null, "InventoryAttribute1": null, "InventoryAttribute2": null, "InventoryAttribute3": null, "InventoryAttribute4": null, "InventoryAttribute5": null } } ] } Note: Multiple status update events can be included in a single order event interface. Status Update Event Validations Validations performed during Status Update order event are: Event Type -  Event type should be a valid base event type ”StatusUpdate” OR a valid extended event type defined in the entity extendedEventType. StatusId - The valid base supported StatusUpdate values are:  In-process (3500.000), Pick (3600.000), Pack (3700.000), and Delivered (7500.000). If a custom status is implemented, then it should be a valid custom StatusId defined in the status definition. Release Id - Is mandatory and should be a valid release Id to move the qty to the new status. ReleaseLineId - Is optional. If not provided, then all the eligible release lines for the release are moved to the new status. Quantity - Quantity is optional but if provided, it should be greater than 0. Validation is performed when the StatusUpdate input quantity is greater than the eligible quantity to be moved. If quantity is not provided, then the open quantity is determined based on the release and release line combination. Note: While interfacing Order Event for Event Type “StatusUpdate” for processing multiple release lines belonging to the same order line, it is mandatory to send the quantity as part of the order event. Input Data Ship/PickUp OrderId + OrderLineId + Quantity Not Permitted ReleaseId + ReleaseLineId + Quantity Permitted ReleaseId + ReleaseLineId Permitted ReleaseId Permitted How to Use Order Events for Delivered Status Update Once an order is shipped and is in the hands of a carrier, retailers may want to subscribe to status updates from the carrier. However, carriers do not use orderId or releaseId to communicate status updates but they only use the tracking number. Fulfillment Info is mandatory for the order to move to the delivered status. If the tracking number provided on the Delivered Status Update matches the order.TrackingInfo.TrackingNumber then the status of the order line is moved to delivered status. Current limitations/assumptions: A tracking number cannot span across orders. If both order A and order B are shipped with tracking number 123, then when an order event updating package 123 to Delivered status is received, only one order is moved to Delivered status (either A or B). Updates base status using tracking number, but are not supported for extended statuses. The order event interface only supports tracking number updates for status 7500/Delivered status. Sample flow for delivered statusFirst, an order is created and released. Then, the  order is shipped using an order event interface: POST to {{url}}/order/api/order/orderevent/receive { "ExternalMessageId": "013837172", "OrderEvent": [ { "ExternalMessageId": "013837172", "EventTypeId": "Ship", "ReleaseId": "EC0000171", "ReleaseLineId": "2", "Item": "Dresses-49488-Black-S", "Quantity": 1, "UOM": "U", "FulfillmentInfo": { "PackageDetailId": "LPN01", "TrackingNumber": "PJX12345", "ShipViaId": "AIR", "CarrierCode": "USPS", "EventDate": "2019-05-30T00:00:00" } } ] } POST to {{url}}order/api/order/orderevent/receive Next, the carrier sends a status update to Active Omni - in this case, updating the package to Delivered status (7500). The update uses the same order event interface with the same tracking number. However, release, release line, order, and order line are not required in this order event, since the carrier will not have such data. { "OrderEvent": [ { "EventTypeId": "StatusUpdate", "StatusId": "7500", "UOM": "U", "FulfillmentInfo": { "TrackingNumber": "PJX1234567", "CarrierCode": "USPS", "TrackingDetail": [ { "TrackingDetailId": "222", "Date": "2021-08-23T00:00:00", "City": "Atlanta", "State": "GA", "PostalCode": "30340", "Status": "Delivered", "StatusDescription": "Delivered" } ] } } ] } Status Update Event Impacts Impacts on the Order Component When an order event 'StatusUpdate' is processed, the following Updates occur on the following: Order Updates The order is placed and released to DC / Store for fulfillment. DC / Store processes and generates a Status Update event to communicate the current status of the quantity. Quantity detail statusId is updated to the statusId on the order event. The quantity from the previous status is reduced and moved to the new status. For example, An order line has 2 quantities, out of which 1 quantity is in released status and the other quantity is in the InProcess status. When the order event is received for Picked, the quantity detail from InProcess is moved to Picked status. If the order event is received for 2 quantities being Picked, then the quantity detail from InProcess and Release is moved to Picked status. Create or update the fulfillment detail entity. A fulfillment detail is created if there is a packageId and packageDetailId for the order event quantity. If a fulfillment detail with the packageId and packageDetailId already exists for the release, the fulfillment detail is increased by the quantity on the order event. If Pickup Expiry Date is mentioned in OrderLineAditional section - Pickup Expiry Date on OrderLineAdditional will be updated with the value. Note: There will be no impact on the inventory component due to a status update. State Transition for Ship to store orders Since there are two allocations for order quantities, the status changes for the order quantities happen differently than with regular, single-leg orders. For ship to store orders, the status of the first leg determines the order quantity status until "released" (3000) status. After released status, the order quantity status updates are based on the updates to the second leg. For example, assume a ship to store order exists with one line with a ship-to location as Store A. The system creates allocations for DC1 for the first leg and Store A for the second leg. The status of the order quantity is in "allocated" status. The first leg allocation is released to DC1. The status of the order quantity moves to "released". DC1 picks, packs, and ships the quantity and sends order events for the merge leg. The status remains in "released" status. The second leg allocation is then released to Store A. When a Status Update is sent for the pick up leg, the order line will move to the respective status (for example, In-progress, Pick, Pack) OM and SIF Integration When SIF and OM are integrated, each fulfillment outbound message SIF generates is picked up by the order component and translated into order events which are then processed as explained in the following steps: Fulfillment Accepted - Fulfillment sends an outbound message with Event Name =  Fulfillment Accepted.  An order event is created of type ”StatusUpdate” with statusId as 3500.000 (In Process). Note: For the Fulfillment lines which have moved to 'Accepted Status', the entire line quantity is used for the quantity on the order event. Fulfillment Picked - Fulfillment sends an outbound message with Event Name =  Fulfillment Picked. The order generates an order event of EventTypeId = StatusUpdate with statusId as 3600.000 (Picked). Quantity on Order Event is calculated as Current Object Pick Qty - Change Set Pick Qty If Pickup Expiry Date is mentioned in OrderLineAditional section - Pickup Expiry Date on OrderLineAdditional will be updated with the value. Fulfillment Packed - Fulfillment sends an outbound message with Event Name =  Fulfillment Packed. Order generates an order event of EventTypeId = StatusUpdate with statusId as 3700.000 (Packed).   A new fulfillment detail should be created for each package/item combination. Quantity on Order Event is calculated as Current Object Pack Qty - Change Set Pack Qty Fulfillment Event Order Event Fulfillment is Accepted An order event is created of type "StatusUpdate" and status = "3500.000" ("In Process") Fulfillment Picked An order event is created of type "StatusUpdate" and status = "3600.000" ("Picked") Fulfillment Packed An order event is created of type "StatusUpdate" and status = "3700.000" ("Packed") Implementation Flavors Extended Status Mandatory Base Statuses When extending a base status, it's mandatory to move the units through the base status before moving to the custom status. This includes Open(1000.000), Back Ordered/1500.000, Allocated(2000.000), Released(3000.000), Fulfilled(7000.000), Pending Return(8000.000) and Returned(8500.000). This is for a few reasons - certain entity updates are required by each service/status (e.g. released requires an allocation), and some services hardcode the drop status and do not read the pipeline configuration. For example, if you add an extended status 2000.100 which is an extension of allocated, it's mandatory to move units through the base allocation service to status 2000.000 before invoking a custom service to move to status 2000.100. Another example is if you want to rename the "Released" status to "Pending Fulfillment" by adding a custom status 3000.100 called "Pending Fulfillment", then you still have to move units through the base Released status (3000.000) before moving to a custom status 3000.100. This also includes shorts - it's not possible to short a unit and drop it in a custom status such as 1500.100. If you want to move units from Released/3000.000 to 1500.100, then you must go through the base short status of 1500.000 first, then invoke a custom service to move from 1500.000 to 1500.100. Note that you cannot skip fulfilled status (7000.000) by moving from Released (3000.000) to Installed (7000.100). Note : When updating a line or unit to an extended status via the order change status or order event API's (examples below), the respective line Id(s) of the order or release line(s) are required in the request to handle partial quantity updates. This is only applicable for extended status updates and may not be necessary for base status updates. Quantity should be passed on the StatusUpdate order event to move the partial quantity to custom status. If quantity is not provided, then the open quantity is determined based on the release and release line combination. Extended Base Status API Sample The following base statuses can be extended before order release. The changeStatus API can be used to move the below status to an extended status. Open(1000.000) Back Ordered(1500.000) Allocated(2000.000) Example, refer to the sample API to move the base status from 2000 to custom status 2000.100. API: /order/api/order/order/changeStatus { "OrderId": "1000046705", "ChangeStatusLine": [ { "OrderLineId": "1", "ServiceId": "extendedStatusChange", "DropStatus": "2000.100", "IntendedDropStatus": "2000.100", "Quantity": 1 } ] } The following base statuses can be extended after order release. The order event can be used to move the below status to an extended status. Released(3000.000) In progress (3500.000) Picked (3600.000) Packed (3700.000) Fulfilled(7000.000) Pending Return(8000.000) Returned(8500.000) Example, refer to the sample API for extending base status from 3600 to custom status 3600.100. API: /order/api/order/orderevent/receive { "ExternalMessageId": "1234", "OrderEvent": [ { "ExternalMessageId": "123411", "EventTypeId": "CustomEventType", "OrderId": "MS_STA_3", "OrderLineId": "1", "ReleaseId": "MS_STA_31", "ReleaseLineId": "1", "StatusId": "3600.100", "Item": "Tops-19691-Blue-S", "Quantity": 1, "UOM": "EA", "FulfillmentInfo": { "PackageId": "PKG_1", "PackageDetailId": "DTL_1" } } ] } Merge Shipment An extended status cannot be used to trigger the release of a 2nd leg merge shipment. The 2nd leg gets released after the 1st leg’s release line gets shipped. This is hardcoded and is not based on quantity detail status, so extended statuses cannot be used for this. Configuration for Moving Units to an Extended Status via Order Event Click on the example below to understand an example scenario on how to  add a custom status "Ballot Printed" 3000.100. Configuration for Moving Units to an Extended Status via Order Event Step Instructions #1: Create a status definition POST to {{url}}/order/api/ServiceDefinition/statusDefinition/save { "ProcessTypeId": "ORDER_EXECUTION", "Status": "3000.100", "Description": "Ballot Printed", "PartialStatusDescription": "Partially Ballot Printed" } ProcessTypeId should always be "ORDER_EXECUTION". #2: Create an extended status event type This configuration can be done in the Extended Status Event Types UI. Login as system admin Alternatively, you can use the API: POST to {{url}}/order/api/order/extendedEventType/save { "EventTypeId": "printBallotEvent", "ServiceId": "printBallot" } This table maps the EventType an external system sends in the Order Event interface with the ServiceId that is configured in Pipeline. #3: Create a service definition POST to {{url}}/order/api/ServiceDefinition/serviceDefinition/save Login as system admin { "ComponentId": "Order", "ServiceId": "printBallot", "BeanName": null, "TransitionsState": true, "InputSchema": null, "OutputSchema": null, "BusinessMethod": "null", "Url": null } ServiceId should match the one provided in the previous step. #4: Configure the pipeline - modify an existing pipeline How to Modify an Existing Pipeline There are six pipelines provided out of the box - each one can be modified as required. Each one has an entry condition based on the delivery method: ShipToHome StoreSale DigitalGoods OrdersWithScheduledRelease SHIP_TO_RETURN_CENTER_EXECUTION STORE_RETURN_EXECUTION To update an existing pipeline, make a GET call to retrieve the pipeline json of the pipeline you're trying to edit. For example, to modify the ShipToHome pipeline, we'd make a GET call to: {{url}}/order/api/ServiceDefinition/pipeline/processTypeId/ORDER_EXECUTION/pipelineId/ShipToHome In Pipeline.json there are two components, PickupService and DropStatusDetermination. PickupService is used to define which services need to be invoked from each FromStatus. In this example: When a unit is in Released (3000) status, the PrintBallot service gets invoked When a unit is in Ballot Printed (3000.100) status, the ShortOrder service can get invoked When a unit is in Ballot Printed (3000.100) status, the FulfillOrder service can get invoked DropStatusDetermination is used to define the status units that should be dropped in, when a service is processing. In this example: PrintBallot service picks from Released (3000), and if successful it drops in Ballot Printed (3000.100) ShortOrder service picks from Ballot Printed (3000.100), and if successful it drops in Back Ordered (1500) FulfillOrder service picks from Ballot Printed (3000.100), and if successful it drops in Fulfilled (7000) POST to {{url}}/order/api/ServiceDefinition/pipeline/save { "ProcessTypeId": "ORDER_EXECUTION", "PipelineId": "ShipToHome", "Description": " Ship to home", "PickupService": [{ "FromStatus": "3000", "ComponentId": "Order", "ServiceId": "printBallot" }, { "FromStatus": "3000.100", "ComponentId": "Order", "ServiceId": "shortOrder" }, { "FromStatus": "3000.100", "ComponentId": "Order", "ServiceId": "fulfillOrder" } ], "DropStatusDetermination": [{ "FromStatus": "3000", "ComponentId": "Order", "ServiceId": "printBallot", "IntendedDropStatus": "3000.100", "Sequence": 1, "ConditionText": null, "DropStatus": "3000.100" }, { "FromStatus": "3000.100", "ComponentId": "Order", "ServiceId": "shortOrder", "IntendedDropStatus": "1500", "Sequence": 1, "ConditionText": null, "DropStatus": "1500" }, { "FromStatus": "3000.100", "ComponentId": "Order", "ServiceId": "fulfillOrder", "IntendedDropStatus": "7000", "Sequence": 1, "ConditionText": null, "DropStatus": "7000" } ] } Note: This example is for illustration only and omits many required statuses such as Open, Allocated, etc. Use the full pipeline json from your environment when configuring in your system; do not use this sample. If you want to allow units to move from Ballot Printed (3000.100) back to Released (3000), then you need to create another service definition, another event type, and another drop status determination. For example: Add the event type logged in as system admin: { "EventTypeId": "cancelBallotEvent", "ServiceId": "cancelBallot" } Add the service definition logged in as system admin: { "ComponentId": "Order", "ServiceId": "cancelBallot", "BeanName": null, "TransitionsState": true, "InputSchema": null, "OutputSchema": null, "BusinessMethod": "null", "Url": null } Then add a new drop status determination in the pipeline logged in as an organization user (not system admin): ... { "FromStatus": "3000.100", "ComponentId": "Order", "ServiceId": "cancelBallot", "IntendedDropStatus": "3000", "Sequence": 1, "ConditionText": null, "DropStatus": "3000" } ... #5: Optional - add a new pipeline How to Add a New Pipeline A new pipeline is only required if different orders should follow different life cycles which cannot be defined in the same pipeline. Sometimes, this can be accomplished in a single pipeline - e.g. if some ship to home orders go from Released > Loaded > Fulfilled, but others skip from Released > Fulfilled, then you do not need a new pipeline for this. A new pipeline is only required if a completely different life cycle is followed. Log in as a user in your organization (not system admin) and complete the following: Step 1: Add a Rule Action Steps 1-3 are to configure the pipeline filter condition, which determines which order lines should enter a given pipeline. The RuleAction is used to map the rule to a pipeline. In the below example, our rule will apply to the "ExtendedShipToHome" pipeline (in the ActionValue attribute). POST to {{url}}/order/api/rules/ruleAction/save { "RuleActionId": "ORDER_EXTENDED_PIPELINE_ACTION", "ActionDescription": "Extended Order Pipeline Action", "ActionValue": "ExtendedShipToHome" } Step 2: Add a Rule Condition In the below example, the rule condition is "ItemId = Boys-Short-L". Any order line or order attributes can be used to form a condition. To use order-level attributes (e.g. order type), ensure the attribute path is defined as orderLine.parentOrder.OrderType. POST to {{url}}/order/api/rules/ruleCondition/save { "RuleConditionId": "ORDER_EXTENDED_PIPELINE_CONDITION", "ConditionValue": "{\"expression\":{\"lhs\":{\"operandType\":\"attribute\",\"attribute\":\"orderLine.itemId\"},\"rhs\":{\"operandType\":\"constant\",\"value\":\"Boys-Short-L\"},\"operator\":\"=\"}}" } Here is a sample rule condition with an AND statement - it says that CustomerFirstName = Agasthya & DeliveryMethod = ShipToReturnCenter: { "RuleConditionId": "ORDER_EXTENDED_PIPELINE_CONDITION", "ConditionValue": "{\"logicalOperator\":\"and\",\"conditions\":[ {\"lhs\":{\"operandType\":\"attribute\",\"attribute\":\"orderLine.parentOrder.customerFirstName\"}, \"rhs\":{\"operandType\":\"constant\",\"value\":\"Agasthya\"},\"operator\":\"=\"}, {\"lhs\" : {\"operandType\" : \"attribute\",\"attribute\" : \"orderLine.deliveryMethod.deliveryMethodId\"}, \"rhs\" :{\"operandType\" : \"constant\",\"value\" : \"ShipToReturnCenter\"},\"operator\" : \"!=\"} ]}" } Step 2a: Add a Rule Condition to negate an existing pipelines, if required. If your pipeline conditions are not mutually exclusive, you may need to update the rule condition of an existing pipeline to ensure it doesn't conflict with your new pipeline. For example, if the new pipeline filters for ItemId = Boys-Short-L, then update the out of the box ship to home pipeline to say that ItemId != Boys-Short-L, to prevent conflicts. { "RuleConditionId": "DELIVERYORDER_PIPELINE_CONDITION", "ConditionValue": "{\"expression\":{\"lhs\":{\"operandType\":\"attribute\",\"attribute\":\"orderLine.itemId\"},\"rhs\":{\"operandType\":\"constant\",\"value\":\"Boys-Short-L\"},\"operator\":\"!=\"}}" } Step 3: Add a Rule The rule ties together your RuleAction and RuleCondition. Ensure the RuleActionId from step 1 and the RuleCondition from step 2 are used in your Rule. POST to {{url}}/order/api/rules/rule/save { "RuleId": "DELIVERYORDER_EXTENDED_PIPELINE_RULE", "RuleGroupId": "DELIVERYORDER_PIPELINE_RULE_GROUP", "RuleDescription": "Delivery Order EXTENDED Pipeline Rule", "Component": "Order", "RuleStatus": "active", "RuleVersion": "1", "Salience": "0", "DisplaySequence": "1", "ActivationDate": null, "ExpirationDate": null, "RuleConditionId": "ORDER_EXTENDED_PIPELINE_CONDITION", "RuleActionId": "ORDER_EXTENDED_PIPELINE_ACTION" } Step 4: Add a Pipeline See the above "How to Modify an Existing Pipeline" section for details on how to create and edit a pipeline. See this collection for sample requests: ES_collection_june17th.postman_collection.json How to Test Extended Statuses Via Order Event Complete all the configuration steps mentioned above. Let's take the example where we added a custom status 3000.100 called "Ballot Printed". Assume our Extended Status Event Type mapping contained an entry with Event Type = printBallot, and this maps to our print ballot pipeline service. Create an order that will enter this pipeline. Get the order in Postman and validate that the order line pipelineId is correct based on your configuration - this checks if the correct pipeline was selected. If the correct pipeline was not selected, then re-evaluate your pipeline rule conditions to ensure they are exclusive. Move the order through allocated and released statuses. The quantity detail should be in status 3000/released. Send an order event with the Event Type from our Extended Status Event Type mapping - "printBallot" - and our custom status - 3000.100. Your quantity detail should now be in status 3000.100, and your line fulfillment status should be Ballot Printed. Click here for sample Order Event to add the above custom status { "OrderEvent": [ { "EventTypeId": "printBallot", "ReleaseId": "EC000081", "ReleaseLineId": "1", "Item": "Dresses-49488-Black-S", "Quantity": 1, "StatusId": "3000.100", "UOM": "EA", "FulfillmentInfo": { "Extended": { "storeassociatephonenumber": "12345" } } } ] } How to create a new order pipeline for a specific order type using rule conditions Out of the box does not support rule conditions to create a new pipeline for a specific order type. You can configure a rule condition that defines the criteria to exclude all the orders belonging to this specific order type and allow all the other orders to flow through the base. Troubleshooting Unable to set up extended status eventType for extended order status with orgUser token Issue: Not able to add extended status even after setting up extended event type using orgUser token via Extended Status Event Types UI or API ({{url}}/order/api/order/extendedEventType/save) Solution: Ensure that the Extended event type is configured with service definition. Unable to update the status of digital goods lines from fulfilled to delivered To update the status from fulfilled to delivered, TrackingNumber and CarrierCode should not be blank or null in orderevent json. The TrackingNumber on the ship event and the status update event should be the same. Sample API: {{url}}/order/api/order/orderevent/receive { "OrderEvent": [ { "EventTypeId": "StatusUpdate", "StatusId": "7500", "ReleaseId": "CC100731", "ReleaseLineId": "1", "Item": "EGC-VARIABLE", "Quantity": 1, "UOM": "EA", "FulfillmentInfo": { "TrackingNumber": "TRCC100731", "CarrierCode": "UPS" } } ] } Return tracking number is not saved when extended statuses are added after the 'Fulfilled' status Issue: When posting the ShippedFromDC event with both FulfillmentDetail.TrackingNumber and FulfillmentDetail.ReturnTrackingNumber, only the tracking number is saved while the return tracking number is not. Solution: The return tracking number can only be updated through the following events: SHIP ("Ship") PICK_UP ("PickUp") STATUS_UPDATE ("StatusUpdate") Related Article(s) Fulfillment Update EventsDelivery Method Update EventsShip EventsREST APIs and User ExitsSubstitution During FulfillmentOverviewTypes of Order EventsShort Events