# iFrames

**Permalink:** iframes
**Path:** Administrator Tools/Manhattan ProActive®/User Interface Extensibility/Contact Center UI Extensibility/iFrames
**Content Length:** 29,758 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:13:37.006951

---

Home ››Administrator Tools››Manhattan ProActive®››User Interface Extensibility››Contact Center UI Extensibility ››iFrames iFrames (Events, Actions, APIs) EventsActionsAPIsHow to Download an iFrame ExampleHow to use iFrame ExtensionsiFrame Extensions Using HTML and JavaScriptiFrame Extensions Using Angular ComponentsSample Angular Component CodeSample Angular Component UI CodeHow to Get Sample URLs for TestingConfigurationsConfiguring Trusted SourcesConfiguration to Allow Empty Space for URL ParametersImplementation FlavorConditionally display iFrameIframe implementation to direct the user custom item search page instead of base item search page Search order across organization from the contact center home screenTroubleshootingEvents are not available for an iFrameBase button does not work after implementing iFrameWhen iFrame is added, only edit order screen is refreshed and not the order headerWhen we add custom popup using UI extension and add the required length and width for the popup, it is working fine for less than 110% zoom, but when we increase the zoom size of the window, the buttons and scroll bar are not showing upUnable to navigate to the desired screen as expected in base flowRelated Articles Custom panels can be added to the base UI by embedding iFrames, where a custom component hosts the content. Given the custom panels are powered by iFrames, extension developers have the flexibility to use the technology of their choice. However, Angular is preferred because the base application also uses Angular. Note: While the panel extensibility provides ultimate flexibility to customize the base user interface much more than the other options, it should be used with utmost care. The base UI design already accounts for the entire space available and when new custom panels are added, the designers should take into account the visual appeal of the overall UI. If there are sections of UI that can be opened on demand, adding a pop-up button and opening the section on demand would be a better user experience. The base UI and the extended panels interact with each other using a set of pre-defined APIs provided by the base application. The JavaScript APIs can be accessed in the extended UI by including thema-extension-client.js in the index.html. The APIs contain Events and Actions. Events The events construct is used to trigger actions based on different events which happen in the base UI. For example, in the item search screen, theitemSearchOnLoadevent is fired when an item is loaded in the UI. The custom panels can capture this event and display recommended items based on the item you are viewing. In addition to displaying the relevant information in the custom panels, events can be used to intercept the base flow and introduce custom behaviors. For example, addItemevent can be used to intercept the add item to cart function and introduce a custom popup to capture more information. Some of the events raised by the application expect an acknowledgment back from the custom panel, if there is a function registered to listen to the event. For example, if a listener is attached to an addItemevent, then the custom panel must call AckAddItemaction to notify that the base UI can move ahead with adding the item to the cart. This feature provides the ability to stop the base flow if required. For example, if there is a validation required before adding an item to the cart, it can be done by listening to theaddItemand callAckAddItemonly if the validation is successful. Actions The actions are a set of pre-defined APIs which are exposed by the base UI. The actions can be used to invoke certain business functions of the base UI. For example, an AddItem can be called to add an item to the cart. Alternatively, the backend API can be directly called. All the data exchange between base and custom panels occurs through JSON data. The relevant format must be followed. APIs Below are the APIs for registering events and calling actions. It is the responsibility of the developer to match the style of the custom panel to the base UI to provide a coherent user experience. API Description Example MAExtension.<Screen>.events.<eventName> Registers the custom function of the event. The registered function is called when the event occurs. MAExtension.ItemSearchScreen.events.onPageLoad(yourFunction) MAExtension.<Screen>.actions.<actionName> Call the base action. The input varies by the action and must be a valid JSON. MAExtension.OrderStatusScreen.actions.reloadPage(yourData) After adding addma-extension-client.jsto index.html, you will have access to a global JavaScript object calledMAExtension.This object is attached to the window object for easy access. How to Download an iFrame Example Navigate to the ProActive UI developer mode for Contact Center. In the UI, select any iFrame button, and the extension popup will open. Inside the popup, click 'Create from Sample' and select any HTML in the dropdown, which will auto-populate the config details. After selecting the value, the download link will appear below the dropdown. Click the download button to download the sample HTML which can be viewed in any code editor. How to use iFrame Extensions Custom iFrame panels can use any technology, but should ultimately be an HTML page. This section explains how to use iFrame panels with HTML/JavaScript and with Angular components. iFrame Extensions Using HTML and JavaScript Step 1: Include ma-extension-client.js in index.html. The 'MAExtension' object is exposed in ma-extension-client.js which is used to register custom methods. <script src="/customerengagementfacade/assets/ui-extensions/iframes/ma-extension-client.js"></script> Step 2: OnLoad, register custom methods by calling respective events. MAExtension.OrderStatusScreen.events.onPageLoad(psoFunction1); Step 3: Fire actions to the base page with data as a parameter. MAExtension.OrderStatusScreen.actions.reloadPage(receivingClientData; Step 4: When the event is fired from the base page, update the UI with the data received. <html> <head> <script src="/customerengagementfacade/assets/ui-extensions/iframes/ma-extension-client.js"></script> <script type="text/javascript"> var receivingClientData; function refreshPage() { MAExtension.OrderStatusScreen.actions.reloadPage(receivingClientData); } psoFunction1 = function psoFunction1(data) { console.log("Inside method psoFunction1"); } psoFunction2 = function psoFunction2(data) { console.log("Inside method psoFunction2"); } psoFunction3 = function psoFunction3(data) { console.log("Inside method psoFunction3"); } MAExtension.OrderStatusScreen.events.onPageLoad(psoFunction1); MAExtension.OrderStatusScreen.events.onPageLoad(psoFunction2); MAExtension.ItemSearchScreen.events.onPageLoad(psoFunction3); window.onload = function () { // Get a reference to the div on the page that will display the // message text. var messageEle = document.getElementById('message'); // A function to process messages received by the window. function receiveMessage(e) { // Update the div element to display the message. var displayMessage; displayMessage = "Order Id : " + e.data.payload.Order.OrderId; displayMessage += "<br>"; displayMessage += "Event Id : " + e.data.eventName; messageEle.innerHTML = displayMessage; receivingClientData = e.data.payload; } // Setup an event listener that calls receiveMessage() when the window // receives a new MessageEvent. window.addEventListener('message', receiveMessage, false); } </script> </head> <body> <div id="background"> <p id="bg-text">Sample Page</p> </div> <div id="content"> <div id="message"></div> <button onclick="refreshPage()">Reload Page</button> </div> </body> </html> iFrame Extensions Using Angular Components Step 1: Build a sample angular project. Include ma-extension-client.js in index.html <script src="/customerengagementfacade/assets/ui-extensions/iframes/ma-extension-client.js"></script> Step 2: Register angular methods in ngOnInit using 'MAExtension' object which is already exposed in ma-extension-client.js. (<any>window).MAExtension.OrderStatusScreen.events.onPageLoad(this.psoSampleMethod1, this); Step 3: Fire actions to the base page (<any>window).MAExtension.OrderStatusScreen.actions.reloadPage(this.orderData); Sample Angular Component Code import { Component, OnInit, NgZone } from '@angular/core'; @Component({ selector: 'app-root', templateUrl: './app.component.html', styleUrls: ['./app.component.css'] }) export class AppComponent implements OnInit { orderData: any; constructor(private zone: NgZone) { } ngOnInit() { //Registering angular method 'psoSampleMethod1' (<any>window).MAExtension.OrderStatusScreen.events.onPageLoad(this.psoSampleMethod1, this); } reloadPage() { //Firing action to base page with parameter (<any>window).MAExtension.OrderStatusScreen.actions.reloadPage(this.orderData); } psoSampleMethod1(data) { //As we are running pso method in javascript context, zone is used to refresh angular component this.zone.run(() => { //Updating local variable to refresh UI this.orderData = data; }); } } Sample Angular Component UI Code <div id="content"> <label>Order Id : </label> <input type="text" [(ngModel)]="orderData?.payload.Order.OrderId"> <label>Event Id : </label><span>{{orderData?.eventName}} <button (click)="reloadPage()">Reload Page</button> //Firing action to base page </div> How to Get Sample URLs for Testing Third-party tools such as Mockable can be used to mock URLs for testing purposes. Configurations Configuring Trusted Sources For iFrames making API calls to external domains, the domain must be configured as a trusted source. Otherwise, the system blocks the API call to the external domain. If the content/API is hosted in the Active Omni domain, then a trusted source is not required. To add a trusted source, use the API:: /api/ds/uiExtensionTrustedSources [ "<<host>>:/<<port>>", "<<host>>:/<<port>>" ] Configuration to Allow Empty Space for URL Parameters To enable this feature, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Proactive > Proactive Menu > Functional Config > Review Behavior Changes For the record with Change Name as “Support null or empty string for Iframe URL parameter', set Enabled to 'true'. If not enabled by the Must Enable By Date listed in this UI, the theme will automatically be enabled on this date. If the feature is not enabled on the review behavior change configuration, the attribute value will be retained within braces, for example {Order.AlternateOrderId} Implementation Flavor Conditionally display iFrame Currently, we do not support conditional display of iFrame, but this can be achieved by following the below steps: Identify the condition for which the iFrame should be displayed conditionally Check if the condition is present and can be evaluated in the payload received in the desired event Apply the condition on the HTML to hide content. Iframe implementation to direct the user custom item search page instead of base item search page Clicking 'Done' after selecting to uneven exchange should direct to custom item search page instead of base item search page On the returns UI for uneven exchange, hide the base ‘Done' button and add a custom button. Implement an iframe (item-to-return-header-iframe). On click of done, Listen to the doneClicked Event, Perform below 2 steps. Call MAExtension.CreateReturnScreen.actions.ackDone(payload); Open the desired screen using MA util function. MAExtension.Window.actions.openWindow() Do custom changes in the new screen and save the order, and then close the window. After the close call reload page using MA util function. MAExtension.CreateReturnScreen.actions.reloadPage action. Search order across organization from the contact center home screen Implement the iframe : “custom-csr-dashboard-search-panel”. Inside this custom iFrame UI implement the text box to take in the order id as input On click of enter, call the search API with keyword as the user input (order ID) and also provide the desired customer template name. For example, if the order Id is 001 : {{url}}/search/api/search/order?keyword=001&page=1&ordersAcrossOrganizations=true&templateName=customtemplateName Display the results in the desired format. Click on the order you wish to navigate to,  then use reloadURL action of MA util  to navigate to order status with query param orderId and selectedOrg. Example: customerengagementfacade/app/orderstatus?orderId{{orderId}}&selectedOrg={{order.OrgId}} Troubleshooting Events are not available for an iFrame Requirement: I do not need a gift card numeric pin to be entered while capturing the Gift Card Payment Type. So, the gift card pin is disabled from the base fields and an iFrame is added to capture a gift card number instead of a gift card pin. But on Expand, it is seen that the base events MAExtension.EditOrderScreen.events.onPaymentAccordianExp  and MAExtension.EditOrderScreen.events.onPageLoad are not getting triggered and also there is no option to pass the payment details to the iFrame config in the UI Extensibility Config. If events are not there for an iframe, pass the required data through the request parameter and load the data within the iFrame. For example, Pass the order ID in the request parameter and load the order within the iframe in the example provided. Base button does not work after implementing iFrame On implementing Iframe on confirm return screen, the "Confirm Return" button stops working. Once the custom iFrame is removed, the button starts working again. If the "confirm-return-iframe" is implemented and when you click the CONFIRM RETURN button, base will fire an event "onConfirmOrder". Custom code will have to listen to this event and fire an action to base to acknowledge MAExtension.CreateReturnScreen.actions.ackConfirmOrder({ AckConfirmOrder : true });. Only then base shall proceed. Note: iFrame events are not triggered if configured in developer mode, please configure via KV store / proactive by working with services. When iFrame is added, only edit order screen is refreshed and not the order header Listen to onPageLoad event in your iFrame custom code. When we add custom popup using UI extension and add the required length and width for the popup, it is working fine for less than 110% zoom, but when we increase the zoom size of the window, the buttons and scroll bar are not showing up For custom pop-up, use css tweaks(overflow-x: scroll;    overflow-y: scroll;) to introduce scroll bar for different screen size, or you can use media query or flex structure. Note : It is always recommended to use the window size with zoom set to 100 % Unable to navigate to the desired screen as expected in base flow Check if iFrame is implemented. If yes, check in actions if you are acknowledged with the required flag or not. Example, Uneven exchange returns not navigating to returns screen. If the item-search-iframe is implemented, on clicking Add and Checkout button the expectation is to redirect to the create return screen on uneven exchange but only if the relevant acknowledgment is sent. The payload should be of the below format. { "ackAddItemAndCheckoutBool": true, // if true , it will allow to send order and orderLine to get prepare the full order and do checkout // if false, nothing will execute . simple provides some console logs. "Order": Order, // prepare the order with some orderLine to create a new order from custom iframe. "OrderLine": OrderLine // prepare the orderline and send that object "isUnEvenExchange": true // True only when do return with uneven exchange *} MAExtension.ItemSearchScreen.actions.ackAddItemAndCheckout({ "ackAddItemAndCheckoutBool": true, "Order": data.payload.Order, "OrderLine": data.payload.OrderLine, "isUnEvenExchange": data.payload.isUnEvenExchange }); Related Articles Extension Util FunctionsPatternsBest PracticesField ExtensionsOverviewLeft Navigation MenuIntercept UI API CallsBase Components Buttons