# Inbound Message Types

**Permalink:** inbound-message-types
**Content Length:** 11,361 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:39:25.757733

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Administrator Tools&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Global Utilities&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Message Types ››Inbound Message Types Inbound Message Types OverviewAccessing the Inbound Message Type UI&nbsp;Applying Filters on&nbsp;Inbound Message Type PageEditing and Viewing Inbound Message Type&nbsp; Overview InBoundMessageTypes stores information about the message types a component is expected to listen to. The message type corresponds to a queue in the broker specified and allows the user to configure various aspects of the queue&#39;s behavior. The InBoundMessageType UI is a centralized interface for users to manage InBoundMessageTypes per component.&nbsp;It eliminates the need for Postman and provides a more streamlined, user-friendly experience. Accessing the Inbound Message Type UI&nbsp; Search and select &#39;ProActive&#39; from the main menu.&nbsp; Navigate to Messaging &gt; Inbound Message Types. Applying Filters on&nbsp;Inbound Message Type Page The left navigation pane of the&nbsp;Inbound Message Type UI enables you to filter inbound message types using the InBoundMessageType entity&rsquo;s attributes. To filter the inbound types, enter the values in the corresponding text box in the filter panel and press enter to display the corresponding inbound message type. Editing and Viewing Inbound Message Type&nbsp; Search and select the inbound message type you want to view or edit&nbsp;on the Inbound Message Type UI. Click Detail to view the inbound message type details Click Edit to update the inbound message type details. The InBoundMessageTypes has the following attributes Attribute Name Description Message Type This field helps identify the type of message being processed, specifically for inbound messages. It works together with the profile ID to match the right configuration for handling the message. Queue The queue name that the message type is mapped to. The user can specify what the queue name should be. If not specified, the queue name is defaulted to the message type itself. Broker This field specifies the name of the broker (the system that manages message communication, like Kafka, SQS, or Google Kafka). It&rsquo;s used when a specific broker needs to be configured or when certain properties of the default broker setup need to be overridden. If left empty, the system will assume RabbitMQ as the default broker. Service Id&nbsp; This ID maps to the ServiceDefinition that performs the actual business logic for this messageType. Label This field identifies the visibility type of the broker to connect to, whether it is a private broker in a resident&#39;s room or a shared broker. Supported values are private, shared, or null. A null value implies a shared broker Number of Consumers The number of concurrent consumers to be started in a high volume stereotype instance such as a QUEUE_PROCESSOR Min Number of Consumers The number of concurrent consumers to be started in a low volume stereotype instance such as a LOW_VOLUME or ALL Max Number of Consumers This was used specifically for ActiveMQ for the dynamic scaling within a container. Not used for any other broker. Max Desired Instances The maximum number of instances allowed for the inbound message type Transformation Template Id&nbsp; The TemplateId of the Velocity or Freemarker template to be applied on the payload before calling the service or retransmitting. Idempotent This flag ensures the message is not processed multiple times on the consumer side. A value of false value means it cannot be processed more than once. This should be used judiciously as it adds extra processing on the system as AWPF has to keep track of the processed messages in the database. Error Message Type This message type, when configured, will be used as an error queue to forward to upon an exception or when the retry count is exhausted. After all retries are exhausted in case of processing failure, the message will be sent to this queue instead of the default awpf-reprocess queue. Retry Count The maximum retry count for a message to process. The user can override the system property level default retries for your messageType with this property if there is a need. Retry Delay The wait time before retrying a message after processing it. Earlier, the default retry delay was set to 500ms between each retry as a system property and all the messageTypes had to follow the same pattern. The user can override the default by providing a comma-separated list of retry delays (for each retry loop) for your message type. Pre-Fetch Count The number of messages to be prefetched from the broker for a message type to process. This field lets the user override the default prefetch count by setting the brokerCluster level at the messageType level. Is User Override A flag which indicates if the user should be overriden with the messaging user system-msg-user BusinessKeyPath The JSON path pointing to a business key on the payload. In the event of a failed message, this will be used to populate the businessKey field on the failed message. External Integration Required A flag to indicate whether this queue will be integrated with an external service. Group Id An Id used for grouping message types that logically belong to a particular business functionality Inbound Message to Retransmit A list of the message types to which this inbound message will be retransmitted to. This is mostly used for external integration. Say the user is connecting to SQS/ Googlepubsub through XINT component, but the actual processing of the message will happen in some functional component (like order or inventory). The inbound messageType connecting to SQS/Pubsub should be created in XINT and then the message should be retransmitted to one of the internal RabbitMQ queues which will be consumed by the functional component. This is the recommended way of connecting to external brokers for ease of scaling. Inbound Queues It allows the user to specify a specific queue name for your message type. This is helpful when the user has to keep the same &quot;messageType&quot; property in multiple components, but every component has its own queue for this messageType. Mostly used by frameworks. LowVolume A flag that indicates if the number of messages for this message type will be high or low. Priority Used for prioritizing message types based on their importance for auto-scaling. The permissible range is between 1 and 10 Scale Down Time Window Wait time (in minutes) between consecutive scale down operations Scale Up Time Window Wait time (in minutes) between consecutive scale-up operations