# Infinite Inventory

**Permalink:** infinite-inventory
**Content Length:** 10,615 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:33:28.435897

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Enterprise Inventory&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Inventory ››Infinite Inventory Infinite Inventory Previous | Next &nbsp; OverviewInventory SupplyInventory VisibilityConfigurationConfiguring&nbsp;Infinite InventoryImplementation FlavorsRelated Articles Overview Typically, retailers would want to maintain infinite supply for specific items across the network or specific set of locations so that there are no backordered items. Some of the use cases are listed below: Drop ship vendor scenarios where certain items are always ordered on demand. Physical gift cards which are always available for the DC to ship Custom items (like a furniture designed online) which always is manufactured and shipped by the vendor whose inventory is not maintained in MAO. Inventory Supply These product(s) can be configured to maintain &quot;Infinite Supply&quot; across the network or at specific locations under the item location configuration entity. Refer to the Inventory Configuration section for more details on configuration. When this configuration is turned on for an item-location combination, Manhattan Active&reg; Omni will internally maintain an &quot;Infinite&quot; supply record which will make sure that these items will never be backordered for inventory reasons. The supply record is never updated, for example, shorting an Infinite item from the DC will not mark the supply record as &quot;Error&quot;. In the Inventory Supply UI, these infinite items can be identified using the &quot;Infinite Inventory&quot; flag.&nbsp;&nbsp; Promising: If an item is configured to have &quot;Infinite Supply&quot; across a set of locations, promising will consider all these locations for optimization during the allocation process. Example: Refer to the table below that describes the inventory supply of three items - ITEM1, ITEM2, and ITEM3 : ITEM ID &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; LOCATION ID&nbsp; IS INFINITE AVAILABLE QUANTITY ITEM1 &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; LOCATION1&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; TRUE &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; INFINITE ITEM1 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; LOCATION2 TRUE &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; INFINITE ITEM1 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; LOCATION3 TRUE INFINITE ITEM2&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; LOCATION1&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; FALSE&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; 50 ITEM2&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; LOCATION2&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; FALSE&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; 50 ITEM2 &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; LOCATION3&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; FALSE &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; 0 ITEM3&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; LOCATION1 FALSE &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; 0 ITEM3 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; LOCATION2 &nbsp;&nbsp; FALSE &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; 50 ITEM3 &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; LOCATION3 FALSE&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; 50 In the above example, if there is an order having ITEM1, ITEM2 and ITEM3 that is getting allocated, promising will chose LOCATION2 as the optimal location because of complete single source(CSS). In this case all 3 locations for the infinite item will be considered for promising. Inventory Visibility From an inventory visibility standpoint, the following interfaces will have an indicator to indicate whether an item location combination has infinite supply or not. Get Availability Calls - Both Network and Location level calls. Availability Sync Perpetual Outbound Sync Inventory Supply UI Publish Availability Transactional messages. Configuration Configuring&nbsp;Infinite Inventory How to Configure Infinite Inventory Attributes Description Item Location Configuration - Infinite Supply An item location combination can be set as &quot;Infinite&quot; using the&nbsp;Item Location&nbsp;Configuration entity.&nbsp;When set to &quot;Infinite&quot;, Manhattan Active Omni will internally maintain an &ldquo;Infinite Inventory&quot; supply record to ensure these items always have inventory. &nbsp;This supply is never updated.&nbsp; Availability Sync While configuring ATC views, users can decide whether to send the infinite supply records as part of the Availability outbound sync or not. This can be configured in&nbsp;Availability to Commerce UI&nbsp;as well as through view definition save API. &nbsp; The configuration can be turned on/off while the view is active, and the next sync triggered will be based on the latest value of the configuration. &nbsp; If turned on, all items including the infinite items are sent as part of the Availability sync. If turned off, infinite items are suppressed from being sent on the Availability sync and a new counter is maintained on the Availability sync outbound messages which will keep track of the infinite inventory records. If an entire page (in sync) has infinite items then empty page will be published with the entire count marked as &quot;ExcludedInfiniteSupplyCount&quot; Note: The default quantity that is maintained for the infinite supply record is 9999. This quantity can be modified using a technical property inv.infinite.supply.max.value in the inventory component. &nbsp; Implementation Flavors NA Related Articles Publishing InventoryOverviewAudit & ArchiveHow Future Supply worksRest APIs & User ExitsHow Supply WorksHow to Configure Supply ProfilesSegmentationSupply SyncReapportionment Troubleshooting &nbsp;