# Interaction Wrap Up

**Permalink:** interaction_wrap_up
**Content Length:** 3,203 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:35:12.250015

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Customer Engagement&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Case ››Interaction Wrap Up Interaction Wrap Up The Interaction Wrap up panel helps the CSR to wrap up different types of interactions between the CSR and customer at any point and create a case for the customer associated with the interaction. CSRs can view the interaction wrap up panel only if they have the corresponding permissions. The user should have the required&nbsp;permission to view the interaction wrap up panel.&nbsp; The Interaction Wrap up panel can also be&nbsp;displayed based on the interaction wrap up indicator &ldquo;IsWrapupRequired&rdquo; sent from the external system on the URL. When you access the dashboard, &bull; If &quot;IsWrapupRequired&quot; =&quot;Y&quot;, the interaction wrap up panel will open in maximized mode.&nbsp; &bull; If &quot;IsWrapupRequired&quot; =&quot;N&quot;, the interaction wrap up panel will not be displayed. If the parameter&nbsp;IsWrapupRequired&nbsp;=Y/N is not available in the URL, the wrap up panel will be available in minimized mode as a default. To wrap up an interaction, perform the following steps: Click Interaction Wrap Up provided in the lower right corner of the Customer Engagement Home, Cases, and Email pages. The Interaction Wrap Up pop-up window is displayed. In the&nbsp;Interaction Wrap&nbsp;Up&nbsp;pop-up window, select the appropriate&nbsp;Interaction Type,&nbsp;if it is not predefined.&nbsp;Do not select Social if your organization has not setup Social Listening. Select the Case Category and Case Sub-Category. Enter the&nbsp;order number, description, and the resolution details for the interaction. Select the Follow up required check box to indicate if further follow-up with the customer is required. Click More to add additional information. The Create Case page is displayed. Enter the case details and click Save to return to the Interaction Wrap Up window. Click Submit to create a case with the selected interaction displayed in the Interactions section.