# Availability Statistics Report

**Permalink:** inventory-configuration-2
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Order Management/UI Help/Enterprise Inventory/Available to Commerce/Availability Statistics Report
**Content Length:** 23,364 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:59:31.860119

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Order Management››UI Help››Enterprise Inventory››Available to Commerce ››Availability Statistics Report Availability Statistics The Detailed Availability Statistics report shows the current/preview metrics of a configuration in the commerce view. The report is the pictorial representation of the items, locations and units included in the view in the form of graphs and tables. The Detailed Availability Statistics report generated for the scenarios needs to relate it as follows Active configuration - The current availability metrics of items and locations is displayed. This gives the current picture of the active configuration Non Active configuration - The availability metrics of items and locations for the inactive configuration is displayed. This enables you to understand the availability picture when this configuration is activated. Generate report for active configurationGenerate report for non active configurationDetailed Availability Statistics report detailsViewing item metrics in reportViewing location metrics in reportViewing units level metrics in report Generate report for active configuration The user can view the summary of the available inventory in the active commerce view. The inventory availability across the locations for Pick up at store and Ship to home commerce view is displayed. With the help of the different statistics available in the system, the pop up provides a numerical summary of the availability in terms of total items, total locations, selling units for the selected commerce view. Identify the required active commerce view. Click  icon in the commerce view tile.  Or Alternatively you can do the following Click  icon in the commerce view tile. Select the active configuration name to view the configuration menu. Usually the active configuration is first in selection list with green dot indicating it is active. Navigate as (image) >> <Configuration Name> >> Analyze current state). Availability pop-up is displayed. Click Details button to view the Detailed Availability Statistics report for the active configuration. Generate report for non active configuration The user can view the availability statistics summary of an inactive configuration of the commerce view. With the help of the different statistics available in the system, the summary pop up provides a numerical summary of the availability in terms of total items, total locations, selling units for the selected configuration. This gives an estimate of items, locations and selling units which will be available in commerce view upon activation. Click  icon in the commerce view tile. Select the inactive configuration name to view the configuration menu. Navigate as ( >> <Configuration Name> >> View Statistics). Availability pop-up is displayed Click Details button to view the preview metrics details. Also Click Refresh button to regenerate the preview metric before selecting Details button. Detailed Availability Statistics report details The report generated for both active and in active configuration is identical in nature. However, we need to view the report as follows Active configuration - The current availability metrics of items and locations is displayed. This gives the current picture of the active configuration Non Active configuration - The availability metrics of items and locations for the inactive configuration is displayed. This enables you to understand the availability picture when this configuration is activated. Viewing item metrics in report Provides the detailed report for important statistics of items included/will be included in the configuration. The heading in the report will be as follows Active Configuration Non Active Configuration Items included in view Items will be included in the view The important metrics for items are: Total items in the network verses items included in the configuration. Division of the count of items in the configuration by each facility type. Division of count of items in the configuration by each rule set for the facility type selected. Items selection for Configuration This displays a comparison of the items that are included in the configuration out of the total items available in the network. The graphical representation is defined as illustrated in table below. Properties Value X Axis The X-axis displays the following Total Items: It is total number of items that have at least one valid inventory record. Included in view: It is the total count of items that are included in the view. The item must have minimum of one inventory record of the supply type configured in the commerce view Y Axis Number of items Items Selection by Location This displays a relative comparison of items included in view by each location type. Location is categorized as Distribution Center(DC), Stores, Suppliers and others. The metric is displayed in the bar graph Properties Value X Axis Represents the locations types, which are Distribution Center, Stores, Suppliers and Others. Y Axis Represents the count of items included in the view by each location type. Each bar in the graph is displayed in the following color legends Shaded/Grey colored (background) - total items included in view Colored (foreground) - total items included in the view by location type. Click each location type, to view the division of items included by each rule set. The rule sets are defined for each location type. Click a location type (DCs, Store, Suppliers and Others) in the bar graph to view its corresponding metric. Also click on the location types listed beside the graph to view its metrics. Properties Value X Axis Represents the rule sets within the location types ( as selected in the chart). Y Axis Represents the count of items included in the view by each rule set for the location type as selected in the chart. For Example: The items selection by stores is 1,567,412. The stores is distributed across three rule sets, named as Brand 1 Stores, Brand 2 Stores and Brand 3 Stores. The division of items for each Stores is displayed in the chart. Viewing location metrics in report Provides the detailed report for important statistics of locations that is included/will be included in the configuration. Active Configuration Non Active Configuration Locations Included in View Locations will be Included in the View The important metrics for locations are Total locations in the network verses locations included in the view Division of the count of locations in the configuration by each location type. Division of the count of locations in the view by each rule set with location type. Location Selection for Configuration This displays a comparison of the locations that is included in the configuration out of the total locations available in the network. Properties Value X Axis The X-axis displays the following Total Locations: It is total number of locations which has at least one valid inventory record. Included in view: It is the total count of locations which are included in the view. The location must have minimum of one inventory record of the supply type configured in the commerce view Y Axis Number of locations. Location selection by location types The distribution of locations by each location types are represented by doughnut charts. Each location types are displayed in one dough nut chart. Properties Value Doug nut Chart The chart displays the division of locations by each rule set within the location types. The location types are Distribution Center, Stores, Suppliers and Others. Viewing units level metrics in report Provides the detailed report for the important statistics of the units that are included/will be included in the configuration. Active Configuration Non Active Configuration X Items are available to sell with Y% of all possible units exposed X Items will be available to sell with Y% of all possible units exposed The important statistics for locations are Division of the count of items by availability Status Comparison of the units available to sell out of the total units included in view Division of units availability information by each location types Count of units, items and locations affected because of exclusions. Items availability for configuration This displays the statistical information of the items in terms of availability status. This categorized mainly as Available to sell or unavailable. Available to sell - items that have inventory status as In Stock or Limited Stock. Unavailable - items that have inventory status as Out of Stock or items that are not included in the view. The tabular matrix also displays the percentage distribution of items be each of the status. Properties Value X Axis Available to sell – items which has inventory status as In Stock or Limited Stock. In Stock : The items with at least one inventory record with In Stock Status are considered as In Stock items. Limited Stock: The items with at least one inventory record with Limited Stock status are considered as Limited Stock items. If the same item has two inventory record with stock status as In Stock and Limited Stock, then the item is considered as In Stock. Unavailable – Items which are in Out of stock status and not included in the view. Zero Units (Out of stock): The items with at least one inventory record with Out of Stock Status are considered as Zero Units items. If the same item has two inventory record with stock status as Limited Stock and Out of Stock, then the item is considered as Limited Stock. Removed Units: The items that are not included in the view, are considered as Removed Unit items. Y Axis The number of items is displayed. Currently Included in <configuration name> This represents the units of items that are actually available to sell out of the total units that could be available to sell had there been no exclusions/constraints for the view. It also provides the breakup information of available to sell by each location types, in terms in units and percentage contribution. Properties Value X Axis X-Axis displays the following; Possible Units: The total number of unit items that could have been included in the view if there were no exclusions/constraints defined in the configuration. Available to Sell: The total number of units that are available to sell. These units belong to items which have status as In Stock or Limited Stock. Y Axis The total unit items for total items available in the system. Currently Removed from <configuration name> This represents the number of units excluded from the commerce view because of different exclusion reasons. It also represents the number of affected items and locations and items which went out of stock because of these exclusion. Exclusions are categorized as follows: Capacity Constraints Fulfillment Outages Inventory in Error Inventory Protection Commerce Characteristics Properties Value X Axis Removed Units - The total units that have been excluded/removed from the view. Affected Items - The total items that have been affected by the constraints/exclusion in the view. The removed units and Affected items bar graph is displayed for each exclusion/constraints attributes. Exclusions are categorized as follows: Capacity Constraints Fulfillment Outages Inventory in Error Inventory Protection Commerce Characteristics Y Axis Total number of units