# Inventory Console

**Permalink:** inventory-console
**Content Length:** 12,990 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:11.871119

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process &amp; Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Dashboards ››Inventory Console Inventory Console Previous&nbsp;I&nbsp;Next &nbsp; OverviewDemand & Forecast ExceptionsFiltered Forecast ExceptionsAutomatic Forecast AdjustmentsOrders with ExceptionsOrders Due TodayInbound AlloationsOn hand AllocationsRelated Articles Overview Inventory Console is one place Inventory Analysts, Allocators, and Demand Planners can view&nbsp;tasks that require attention. The&nbsp;console provides an overview of various types of tasks, such as exceptions, orders, and allocations requiring review, eliminating the need to navigate through multiple screens and apply different filters. Users can begin their&nbsp;work here and return to the console later, with the display dynamically updating to reflect changes, such as a decreasing count of orders to review, as they are approved. &nbsp; The primary goal of the Inventory Console is to inform users about pending tasks and counts for each type: How many forecast exceptions require review? How many orders need to be reviewed and approved? How many simulation results need to be examined? How many allocations are pending review and approval? &nbsp; The Inventory Console page features widgets and charts that showcase counts related to various exceptions: Demand and Forecast Exceptions: Includes categories such as high/low demand and trending demand frequency. Filtered Forecast Exceptions: Displays exception counts based on exclusion rules and other filters. Automatic Forecast Adjustments: Show adjustments like smoothing factor changes and forecast readjustments. Orders with Exceptions: Highlights of orders&nbsp;that have exceptions;&nbsp;are not due today, but some lines are at risk of running out of stock. Inbound Allocation: Displays the On Order and In Transit Allocations by Status (DCs) On hand Allocation: Displays the On hand Allocations by Status (DCs) Each piece in the charts acts as a link to a filtered list page where users can see the forecasts, orders, allocations, etc. which need to be reviewed. Demand & Forecast Exceptions The data points in the demand &&nbsp;forecast exceptions widget take the user to the&nbsp;Forecast Exceptions page (list) with the relevant filter applied. For example,&nbsp;if the user clicks on the Unusually High Demand&nbsp;bar on the Demand and Forecast Exceptions chart, then the Forecast Exceptions page will show forecasts with unusually high demand exception which has not been reviewed, and the exception has not been filtered out due to exclusion rules, etc. &nbsp; &nbsp; Filtered Forecast Exceptions The data points in the filtered forecast exceptions widget take the user to the Forecast Exceptions page (list) with the relevant filter applied. Forecast exceptions are filtered based on Exception Exclusion Filters and Rules which are defined in the Forecast Exception Policies. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Automatic Forecast Adjustments The data points in the automatic forecast adjustments widget take the user to the&nbsp;Forecasts page (list) with the relevant filter applied. Forecasts and smoothing factors are automatically adjusted&nbsp;based on configurations defined in the Forecast&nbsp;Policy &nbsp; Orders with Exceptions The data points in the widget take the user to the Suggested Order page&nbsp;with the corresponding filter applied. Orders&nbsp;with exceptions are not due today, but some lines are either out of stock, or at risk of running out of stock within the exposure period. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Orders Due Today The regular orders are orders that are due today. &nbsp; &nbsp; Inbound Alloations Displays the On Order (supply type = Purchase Order) and In Transit (supply type = ASN) Allocations by Status. &nbsp; On hand Allocations Displays the On hand Allocations by Status. Related Articles Unified Business Planning ConsoleAllocators ConsoleItem Location Analysis &nbsp;