# Inventory Audit Configuration

**Permalink:** inventory-audit-configuration
**Content Length:** 6,466 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:36:24.098201

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Inventory & Fulfillment&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Inventory Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Inventory Audit ››Inventory Audit Configuration Inventory Audit Configuration Enable Inventory Log for Transaction TypeStore Transaction TypeStore Inventory Transaction Type OverrideUIs and Entities This guide outlines the configuration required for adjusting the store inventory. Enable Inventory Log for Transaction Type This flag provides the ability&nbsp;to turn on or off the inventory audit based on the transaction type.&nbsp;Inventory audit can be enabled for five types of transactions:&nbsp;Receipt, Manual Adjustment, Cycle Count, Resolve Error, and Out Of Stock.&nbsp;Inventory audit updates are&nbsp;turned off for all transaction types by default and can be enabled as needed. To enable Inventory Audit Logging for the transactions, the user should list the desired transaction type(s.) If multiple transaction types are desired, separate&nbsp;with &quot;::&quot;. For example, to enable logging&nbsp;for&nbsp;manual adjustments and cycle counts, Resolve Error, and Out Of Stock, the user should update with the value &quot;Manual Adjustment::Cycle Count::Resolve Error::Out Of Stock&quot;&nbsp;(without quotes, case sensitive, no spaces.) This configuration is available from the Store Inventory Configuration UI. Store Transaction Type The list of base store transaction types that trigger supply events to Inventory Management is maintained as seed data in the Store Transaction Type UI. The Inventory Transaction Type attribute on the supply event is populated for each store transaction type.&nbsp; Examples of store transaction types are Manual Adjustment, Cycle Counting Adjustment, Store Initiated Transfer Adjustment, Resolve Error, Out Of Stock,&nbsp;and so on.&nbsp; Store Inventory Transaction Type Override Retailers have the ability to override the base store transaction types with their own custom values using the Override Store Transaction Type UI. This configuration is optional. If there is no override present for the store inventory type, the base store transaction type is used.&nbsp; For example, a retailer may choose to configure a custom override store transaction type for store-initiated transfers (i.e., defining the custom value &quot;Transfer Initiated by Store&quot;) but use the base store transaction type for cycle counts. The store transaction type&nbsp;is system level entity and you cannot add new transaction types. You can only override the existing one with a different alias. UIs and Entities The configuration UIs mentioned in this document are listed in the following table,&nbsp;along with information to&nbsp;navigate&nbsp;to the API documentation. UI Name Component Group Seed Data Present? Seed Data Profile Store Inventory Configuration Sim StoreInventoryConfiguration Services Yes Base Store Transaction Type Sim StoreTransactionType Services Yes System Override Store Transaction Type Sim StoreInventoryTransactionTypeOverride Services Yes Base