# Inventory Configuration

**Permalink:** inventory_configuration
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Order Management/UI Help/Enterprise Inventory/Inventory Configuration
**Content Length:** 51,013 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:59:37.795161

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Order Management››UI Help››Enterprise Inventory ››Inventory Configuration Inventory Configuration Inventory plays a vital role in the functioning of a supply chain retailer. The inventory information is used to update several connected systems, which helps in: Deciding on allocation of orders Quantitative requirement of inventory at different locations Accurate allocation and routing of orders to locations Inventory ConfigurationSupply Event ConfigurationInventory Location ConfigurationInventory Location Attribute ConfigurationSupply Type DefinitionDisposition and Lock CodesError CodesInbound Sync ConfigurationSupply ConfigurationsSmart Sync ConfigurationsInventory Event with Replace ConfigurationInventory Publishing ConfigurationInventory Relay ConfigurationSegmentation ConfigurationSegmentsSegmentation ConfigurationOn Hand Transaction Type ConfigurationInfinite Inventory ConfigurationItem Location ConfigurationAvailability Sync ConfigurationInventory Demand TypeDemand Segment MatchSort Order Supply Type Deprioritize Past Due Inventory Supply ReapportionmentEnable ReapportionmentScheduling ReapportionmentKits ConfigurationProtection Override ConfigurationPart 1: Follow the below steps before configuring protection overrides: Part 2: Follow the steps below to create Protection Overrides:To Override On Hand Protection in Availability Rules To Override Network Level ProtectionInteractive Inventory ParametersEnable Reservations from Cache Supply Event Configuration Inventory Location Configuration The Inventory Location enables you to add/edit locations with details such as address, location performance, capacity definition, capacity override, location scheduling hours, location carrier pick time, location holidays, merge route, location service level, and location VAS. Refer to the Factors Affecting Supply section for details. To navigate to the Inventory Location page, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Inventory Configuration > Inventory Location. The Filter Panel enables you to filter location based on Location ID, Display ID, Location Status ID, Location Type ID, Location Sub Type ID, Location Name, Ship From Store, Ship To Store, Pickup At Store, Accept Returns, State, and Country. On the Inventory Location page, you can create a new location, or view, edit, and delete the existing location. To add a new location, click Create. Enter the location details and click Save. To edit the existing location, select the location, and click Edit. Make the necessary changes as required and click Save. To view the existing location, select the location, and click Details. In the view mode, you will be able to only view the details and not modify the values. However, you can click Edit to modify the values. To delete the existing location, select the location and click Delete. Note that multiple locations can be deleted. Inventory Location Attribute Configuration The Location Attribute user interface enables you to define the parameters required for maintaining inventory for different locations. Refer to the Factors Affecting Supply section for details. To configure location attributes, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Inventory Configuration > Inventory Location Attributes. In the Inventory Location Attribute page, select the required location and click View. In the Details tab of the View Location Attributes page, select the attributes required for maintaining inventory for different locations. Supply Type Definition Supply Type consists of various attributes to track the supplies. Refer to the Factors Affecting Supply section for details. To configure Supply Type Definition, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Inventory Configuration > System Data > Inventory Supply Types. In the Supply Type Definitions page, click Add or select the required supply type configured and click View. In the Edit/Add Supply Type Definition page, enter the Supply Type ID. For example, In-transit, Closed. Select the supply type by selecting the On Hand Supply and Closed check boxes. Enter the Priority ranking value. Select the Allow Segment Transfer check box to allow segment transfer for the defined supply type. Enter the description and click Save. Disposition and Lock Codes Lock Codes are used to lock or move inventory to different dispositions. Refer to the Factors Affecting Supply section for details. To configure disposition and lock codes, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Inventory Configuration > Inventory Lock Codes. In the Lock Codes page, click Add or select the required lock code configured and click View. Enter the Lock Code ID. For example, cycle count. Select the Supply Type ID and Disposition ID from the drop-down lists. Enter description and click Save. Error Codes The error codes enables you to reason an inventory issue. Refer to the Factors Affecting Supply section for details. To configure error codes, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Inventory Configuration > Inventory Error Codes. In the Error Codes page, click Add or select the required error code configured and click View. Enter the Error Code ID. For example cancel, short. Enter description and click Save. Inbound Sync Configuration Supply Configurations Inventory sync helps to reconcile the inventory snapshot between the warehouse or store system and Enterprise Inventory. Note that only one supply configuration per organization is supported. Refer to the How to set up Inbound Sync section for details. To configure Supply Configuration, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Inventory Configuration > Supply Configurations. Click Add or select the required configuration and click View. Enter the Configuration ID. Select the Validate Sync Import check box to validate Sync import. Select the Apply Smart Sync check box to apply smart sync. Select the Smart Sync Threshold Type ID from the drop-down list and enter the Smart Sync Threshold Value. Select the Smart Sync Action ID and Supply OB Relay Format ID from the corresponding drop-down lists. Enter the value for supply event batch size. Click Save. Smart Sync Configurations Inventory sync helps to reconcile the inventory snapshot between the warehouse or store system and Enterprise Inventory. We can configure threshold for Location ID, Location Type, and All Locations. Refer to the How to set up Inbound Sync section for details. To configure Smart Sync Configuration, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Inventory Configuration > Smart Sync Configurations. Click Create to create a new smart sync configuration or select the required configuration and click Edit. In Step 1, enter the config name and description, and you can set the following rules as required. To set the rules for all locations, Select "Apply for all locations" as Yes. The Location ID will disappear and step 2 will be greyed out. Click Save and Continue to proceed to step 3. To set the rule for Location Id, Select "Apply for all locations" as No. Enter Location ID for which rule is being created. In this case, step 2 will be greyed out. Click Save and Continue to proceed to step 3. To set the rule for Location Type, Select "Apply for all locations" as No. Do not enter any Location ID and click Save and Continue to proceed to step 2. In step 2, click Create to display the Smart Sync Config Rule page. Enter the Rule Name and select the location type in the Attribute drop-down to specify if the rule is for DC, Store, Suppliers, or others. Select the operator and value, and then click Save and Continue to proceed to step 2 and further to step 3. In step 3, enter "Smart Sync Threshold Type ID", "Smart Sync Action ID, and Smart Sync Threshold Value. The "Consider Zeroed Inventory For Smart Sync" will be set as true by default. Click Save. Inventory Event with Replace Configuration Adjustment Type Replace in Inventory Location Attribute enables you to update inventory with absolute quantity. Refer to the How to Enable Replace for a Location section for details. To configure the location for adjustment type replace, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Inventory Configuration > Inventory Location Attribute. In the Inventory Location Attribute page, select the required location and click View. In the Details tab, select the Adjustment Type Replace check box to enable inventory replacement. Inventory Publishing Configuration Inventory records with different attributes are set to be synched with the external systems. Refer to Publishing Inventory for details. Inventory Relay Configuration The Inventory location Attribute enables you to configure the relay settings. Inventory relay can be enabled or disabled for a set of locations. Inventory events with a change of inventory levels can be configured to be relayed to external systems, and the outbound relay message is published in JSON format. Refer to Inventory Relay for more details. To configure the relay settings, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Inventory Configuration > Inventory Location Attributes. Select the required inventory location attribute configured and click View. Select the Generate Relay Event check box to enable the inventory relay. Segmentation Configuration Segments Segments are logical division of inventory for a same location. Refer to the How to Configure Segmentation section for details. To configure segments, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Inventory Configuration > Segments. Click Add or select the required configured segment and click View. Enter the Segment ID. Select the Default check box to set the segment as a default segment. Enter description and priority value. Click Save. Segmentation Configuration Segment configuration enables you to define the strategy to segment the inventory. Refer to the How to Configure Segmentation section for details. Use Authorized Segments enables you to select the highest priority authorized segment for the item/location. Refer here for more details. To set the strategy to segment the inventory, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Inventory Configuration > Segmentation Configuration. In the Segmentation Config Template pane, click Add New Config. Enter the Config Name, Rank, Starting Date, Ending Date, and description of the segment configuration. Click Save. To create a rule condition that defines the eligibility criteria for a supply, click Add New Criteria in the Rule Condition section. Rules can be configured with locations or items filters. Enter the name for the selection criteria. Click the Select Available Attributes drop-down list. In the Available Attributes pop-up window, select the entity and their attributes, and then click Save. In the Segmentation Rules, select the strategy as required. If the 'Use Authorized Segments' checkbox is selected and the segmentation strategy is set to 'Priority', the highest priority authorized segment will be chosen for that item/location. However, if the segmentation strategy is set to 'Percentage', the percentage rule applies only to the segments that are common between the authorized segments and segments chosen in the strategy and the distribution of the inventory will happen between the segments on a fair share percentage basis. Non-authorized segments will no longer be considered. Note: The Segmentation Configuration UI is not extensible. On Hand Transaction Type Configuration The On Hand Transaction Type Configuration enables you to associate a segment configuration with an on hand transaction type. Refer to the How to Configure Segmentation section for details. To associate a segment configuration against an on hand transaction type, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Inventory Configuration > On Hand Transaction Type Config. Click Add or select the required configured on hand transaction type and click View. Enter the name for the configuration that matches the configuration name in the segment config. Enter the value for On Hand Transaction Type. For example, Adjustment, Movement. Enter the Adjustment Type (For Ex: A for Add, S - Substract). Click Save. Infinite Inventory Configuration Item Location Configuration To configure infinite supply for an item location combination, Follow the configuration steps. Refer to the How to Enable and Configure Infinite Inventory section for details. Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Inventory Configurations > Item Location Configuration Click Add or select the required item location tile and click View Enter the Item ID, Location ID and select the “Infinite Supply” check box. Click Save. Availability Sync Configuration To include the infinite items as part of the Availability sync, perform the following steps. Refer to the How to Enable and Configure Infinite Inventory section for details. Click Menu > Enterprise Inventory > Available to commerce  > Manage Availability. To select an existing commerce view, double-click the existing available to commerce view. Click the Availability Status tab. In the Sync section, select the Include Infinite Availability Items in Sync check box. Click Save. Inventory Demand Type Demand type are defined to match the demand supply for the inventory. Refer to How Reservation Works for details. To define the demand type, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Inventory Configuration > Inventory Demand Types. Click Add or select the required configured inventory demand type and click View. In the Details tab, enter the name and description for the demand type. In the Demand Supply Match tab, click Add. In the Demand Supply Match dialog box, select the supply type and rank from the drop-down lists. Click Save. Demand Segment Match Demand Segment Match is defined to match the demand with supply & segment for the inventory. Refer to How Reservation Works for details. To define the demand segment match, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Inventory Configuration > Inventory Demand Types. Click Add or select the required configured inventory demand type and click View. In the Details tab, enter the name and description for the demand type. In the Demand Segment Match tab, click Add. In the Demand Segment Match dialog box, select the supply type, segment and rank from the drop-down lists. Click Save. Sort Order Supply Type Sort Order is configured by ETA for future supply and by Inventory Attribute 1-5 for on-hand supply, either by ascending or descending order. Refer to How Reservation Works for more details. To configure sort order, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Inventory Configuration > Inventory Demand Types. Click Add or select the required configured inventory demand type and click View. In the Demand Supply Match tab, click Add. In the Demand Supply Match dialog box, select the supply type from the drop-down list. Select the Sort attribute as ETA/Inventory Attribute[1-5] and the Sort Order as Asc or Desc. Click Save. Example, refer to the section below for details on how to sort the supply based on the expiration date, that is, the supply which has the nearest expiration date should be consumed first. Supply Type Sort Attribute Sort Order On Hand Inventory Attribute 3 ASC On Hand Available Soon Inventory Attribute 3 ASC Record# Supply Type Inventory Attribute 3 Quantity 1 On Hand 2023-01-16T00:00:00 10 2 On Hand 2023-02-16T00:00:00 10 3 On Hand Available Soon 2023-02-16T00:00:00 10 4 On Hand Available Soon 2023-01-16T00:00:00 10 In this example, if the request is for 31 units, then the allocation will follow the following order: 10 Qty from Record1, 10 Qty from Record 2, 10 Qty from Record 4 and then 1 Qty from record 3. Deprioritize Past Due Inventory Supply Deprioritize Past Due Inventory Supply feature enables the retailer to deprioritize all future inventory with ETA less than the current date during allocation. Refer to the Create Reservation Matches section for details. To deprioritize past due inventory supply, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Inventory Configuration > Inventory Demand Types. Click Add or select the required configured inventory demand type and click Edit. In the Demand Supply Match tab, click Add or Edit the required configured inventory supply type. In the Demand Supply Match dialog box, select the Deprioritize Past Due Inventory Supply check box. Click Save. Note: You cannot deprioritize the past due inventory supply for Onhand supply. Reapportionment Reapportionment provides the ability to evenly distribute on hand inventory across orders when inventory is constrained. Reapportionment is used for both retail and wholesale orders. When the available on hand quantity is not sufficient to satisfy the complete demand across multiple stores, reapportionment ensure all customers get some inventory, and each store has items in stock to sell. Reapportionment is set while creating a new/editing strategy in the fulfillment optimization user interface. For more information on configuration read here. Enable Reapportionment To enable reapportionment, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Enterprise Fulfillment Configurations > Fulfillment Optimization Click Add New Strategy.  Enter the details and select Reapportionment Checkbox. Click Save. The new strategy page with Reapportionment is enabled message is displayed. Scheduling Reapportionment Reapportionment runs in batch mode that needs to be scheduled. The Fulfillment Utilization UI enables you to configure a schedule for the reapportionment job. To schedule a reapportionment, perform the following steps: In the Fulfillment Utilization UI, enable reapportionment for existing or a new strategy. Refer to the Enable Reapportionment section for details. After you enable the reapportionment, a new Schedule tab is displayed. In the Schedule tab, select the day(s) of the week you want to schedule the reapportionment. Note that You can select multiple days of the week. Set the Start Time for the schedule and click Add to add the entries to the table. Click Save to save the schedule. Kits Configuration The Kit Configuration UI enables you to configure the supply type for kit supply. Refer Publish Availability for more details. To set the kit supply type under kit configuration, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Inventory Configuration > Kit Configuration On the Kits Configuration page, click Create to add a new configuration. Alternatively, you can select the existing kit configuration and perform the following actions: Edit - Click Edit to update the existing kits configuration View - Click Details to view the details of the kit configuration Delete - Click Delete to delete the kit configuration. Enter the "Config Name" a unique identifier for the configuration. Select the "isDefault" checkbox to make it a default configuration. Select the Default Supply Type For On Hand and Default Supply Type for Future from the corresponding drop-downs. Click Save. Note : Ensure the kit configuration has only one default setting. Otherwise, the system will randomly select from the configurations marked "isDefault" as true. Protection Override Configuration The Protection Override Configuration UI enables you to override protection (Availability rules and Network) for any specific items, styles, product classes, department names, and brands. Refer to How is Availability Computed for more details. To set up the Protection Override, perform Part 1 and Part 2 steps below: Part 1: Follow the below steps before configuring protection overrides: Navigate to Developer Resources > System Management from Omnifacade. Navigate to Copy Profile from the proactive screen. Click the Copy profile button. Select From Profile ID as "base" and To Profile ID as your current profile, and then click next. Now, select "inv::rules" in "Profile Purpose ID" and "component" as "inventory". Finally, click on Submit to successfully copy the desired profile purpose from base to current profile. After you copy the desired profile, perform the following steps to configure protection override Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Inventory Configuration > Protection Override Configuration On the Protection Override Configuration page, click Create to add a new configuration to override for a single item, styles, product classes, department names, and brands. This displays the Protection Override Configuration page. Alternatively, you can click "Import Item Id" if the requirement is to override the list of Item Ids. Refer to ProtectionOverrideTemplate for a sample excel template. Edit - Click Edit to update the existing override configuration View - Click Details to view the details of the override configuration Delete - Click Delete to delete the override configuration. Once you are in the Create option, there will be three steps : Part 2: Follow the steps below to create Protection Overrides: Step 1 - Enter the following details on the Protection Override Details page. Config Name: A unique identifier for the configuration. Override Group Name: Enter a new override group name or select from existing override groups that will be mapped to the ATC view e.g. - Override Men's Pants & Accessories. Description: Provide a description for which an override config is being created. Is Item Level: Select "Yes" if you want to override for a specific Item. Else, select "No" if you want to override styles, product classes, department names, and brands and move to Step 2. Protection Override Type: Select "Availability Rules" if you want to override on-hand protection quantity configured in availability rules. Alternatively, select "Network" if you want to override protection quantity configured at view level. Step 2 - Create the protection rule conditions on the Create Protection Rule Criteria page. Rule Name: A unique identifier for the Rule. Rule Condition: Select an attribute that needs to be overridden(Style, Product class, Department name, and Brand) and using the MVEL expression, enter the attribute value Step 3 - Add the following Protection Override Value : DC Protection: Enter the protection quantity that will be overridden on the values configured at "Availability Rules" and "Network" for DC. Store Protection: Enter the protection quantity that will be overridden on the values configured at "Availability Rules" and "Network" for Store. Supplier Protection: Enter the protection quantity that will be overridden on the values configured at "Availability Rules" and "Network" for Supplier. Other Protection: Enter the protection quantity that will be overridden on the values configured at "Availability Rules" and "Network" for others. Network Protection: Enter the protection quantity that will be overridden on the values configured at "view" level for the network. Click Save and Finish to save the protection override configuration. Once we have the Override Group Name in the Protection Override Configuration, follow the steps below to override protection in any ATC view. To Override On Hand Protection in Availability Rules Navigate to "Available To Commerce (New)" > View Configuration In the Additional Configs tab, navigate to the "Protection Override" under "On Hand Inventory Protection", select the "item based protection override" from the following option: Select "True" if you want to override on-hand inventory protection for the item/list of items. Select "False" if you want to override on-hand inventory protection based on styles, product classes, department names, and brands. In the "Select Protection Override Group" drop-down, select "Override Group Name" created in "Override Protection Configuration". Or Navigate to "Available To Commerce" In the Availability Status tab, navigate to "Protection Override" under  "On Hand Inventory Protection" section, select the "item based protection override" from the following option: Select "True" if you want to override on-hand inventory protection for the item/list of items. Select "False" if you want to override on-hand inventory protection based on styles, product classes, department names, and brands. In the "Protection Override Group" drop-down, select "Override Group Name" created in "Override Protection Configuration". To Override Network Level Protection Navigate to "Available To Commerce (New)" > View Configuration In the Additional Configs tab, navigate to the "Protection Override" under "Item Settings", select the "item based protection override" from the following option: Select "True" if you want to override protection at the network level for the item/list of items. Select "False" if you want to override protection at the network level based on styles, product classes, department names, and brands. In the "Select Protection Override Group" drop-down, select "Override Group Name" created in "Override Protection Configuration". Or Navigate to "Available To Commerce" In the Availability Status tab, check the "Network Protection" box, click the pencil icon, and select "Protection Override". Then select "item based protection override" from the following options: Select "True" if you want to override protection at the network level for the item/list of items. Select "False" if you want to override protection at the network level based on styles, product classes, department names, and brands. In the "Protection Override Group" drop-down, select "Override Group Name" created in "Override Protection Configuration". Note : The "Override Group Name" can be duplicated in "Protection Override Configuration" to attach multiple override configurations to ATC views. Interactive Inventory Parameters Enable Reservations from Cache This parameter is used to defer supply updates and track reserved quantity in cache as part of the reservation create or update process. To enable reservations from cache, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Inventory Configuration > Interactive Inventory Parameters. Click Add or select the existing configuration and click View. For new configuration, enter the name for the configuration and select the IsHotSkuEnabled check box. Click Save. Following grants are required to access this UI: Resource Access masterdatafacade::inventory::interactiveInventoryParameters::read Provides the menu option and allows user to view the existing configurations. masterdatafacade::inventory::interactiveInventoryParameters::createupdate Allows user to create a new configuration or update an existing configuration. masterdatafacade::inventory::interactiveInventoryParameters::delete Allows user to delete an existing configuration.