# Inventory Performance

**Permalink:** inventory-performance
**Content Length:** 12,801 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:22.919555

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Allocation&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Allocated Supplies&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Allocation Maintenance ››Inventory Performance Inventory Performance &nbsp; Inventory Performance Analytical capabilities are enabled to help the allocator understand which aspects of their allocation strategy are not yielding the performance that they anticipated. Inventory Performance analytics specifically helps to understand why sub-optimal performance may be seen and identify alternatives that can generate better business results. This allows users to make critical adjustments in real-time during the selling season. &nbsp; From the Allocation Console page,&nbsp;click on the required supply KPI displayed in&nbsp;the header. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;For example,&nbsp;Est Sell Thru %, In Stock %, Days of Supply,&nbsp; Overallocation, and&nbsp;Underallocation. &nbsp; &nbsp; The KPI Details (Name of KPI) page is displayed.&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;KPI values displayed are for all product locations In-season or End-of-season and meeting filter criteria provided. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; The following aggregation levels are available in the bar graphs: Department, Class, Subclass When the aggregation is by department, it will display the KPI information of different classes present in that particular department. When the aggregation is by class, it will display the&nbsp;KPI information of&nbsp;different subclasses present in that particular class. When the aggregation is by subclass, it will display the&nbsp;KPI information of different style&nbsp;present in that particular subclass. All the bars are displayed based on their KPI performance (worst to best). Top 25 bars will be show, worst to best (left to right). Users can sort asc/desc based on the KPI for the aggregation level. &nbsp; &nbsp; Select a Department/Class/Subclass and click on the View Analytics button. &nbsp; The Inventory Performance page is displayed.&nbsp; &nbsp; Allocation Strategy information is displayed by distinct groupings of Strategy, Policy, Pre-Season Method, In-Season Method, and End of Season Method with the count of product locations. The user can view specific Sales, Inventory, historical Need,&nbsp; Manual Changes, historical out of stock, and influence to Allocation for a specific date range by setting the date range from the calendar icon. The line chart displays the Inventory vs Need vs Total Sales for the filtered product locations, within a specified date range. The total sales are the sum of user-configured fulfillment types. This can be configured under the UI parameters. section. Default value: TotalSales = RETAIL,BOPIS,CURB,and SHIPFROMSTORE. &nbsp;The out of stock bubble in the historical sales chart will display&nbsp;the % of product locations OOS in a week over time and&nbsp;Avg # days OOS within a week. The size of the bubble will be based on the percentage of the product location, which should be plotted along with the inventory line.&nbsp; Formula to Calculate Percentage of Product location and Average Days: % of product locations OOS in a week = (# product locations OOS in a week / # active product locations in the week)X100 Average days OOS in a week = sum(days OOS in a week) / # product locations OOS in a week. &nbsp; On hover&nbsp;of each&nbsp;bubble will show the below information: Week Inventory % product locations Avg days Active product locations The Influence to Allocation chart displays information about supply shortage, method changes, and manual changes for the particular week. Supply Shortage: RAQ (raw allocated quantity) can be compared to System Allocated Quantity to identify supply shortages. When System Allocated Quantity (quantity allocated by system) is less than RAQ, either there is not enough supply at the source location to fulfill the RAQ, or inventory is being held back at the source location. Method Changes: It displays the changes in the method for the particular week. Allocated Quantity Changes: Manual changes to system suggested allocation quantities can be identified by comparing System Allocated Quantity (system suggested qty) to sum of Inventory and Final Allocated Quantity. When the two are not equal the Allocated quantity has been manually changed. Need VS Allocated graph will display the RAQ, system allocated, and final allocated quantities for each day for the selected week. User can click on any of the bars in Influences to Allocation chart to see more details for the DOs released within that week. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Need vs Allocated chart will show as a popup. &nbsp; Data at a daily level reduces the amount of aggregation, which should lead to more meaningful data. The values for each bar are aggregated values from all DOs released in a day, and meeting selection criteria. The stacked bar chart displays the Sales by different Fulfillment Types that are configured for the TotalSales. The Pie graph under the Changes to Allocations section will provide information about the count and % of the released allocations which have had manual changes to only Allocated quantity, only Method Overrides, Both Allocated quantity and Method Overrides versus no manual changes,&nbsp;for the total number of released allocations within a specified date range. In the Sales section, users can view the unit&#39;s sold across all the fulfillment types within the date range selected. New access point is available in the Inventory performance page from Allocation Maintenance page.&nbsp;In order to a user to review allocations and see if a KPI is not looking great or wants to know what has been done previously for a given style.&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;