# Inventory Parameters

**Permalink:** inventory-parameters
**Content Length:** 12,662 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:34:40.117742

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Enterprise Inventory ››Inventory Parameters Inventory Parameters Honor Future Segment&nbsp;Evaluate Reservation Match ChangeOn Hand / Future Supply Purge Days&nbsp;Empty Availability Out Bound Page&nbsp;Reduce Utilized CapacityLocation Inclusion DelayGet Supply Details From Cache&nbsp;Consider Receipt Time For Allocation&nbsp;Sync Detail Persistence DaysGet Availability Cache&nbsp;Delivery Earliest&nbsp;Lead Time&nbsp; Inventory Parameters enables you to set the parameters for inventory such as honor future segment ID, future supply purge days, reduce utilized capacity, location inclusion delay, consider receipt time for allocation, get available cache, delivery earlier lead time, and so on. Note:&nbsp;Inventory parameters are from seed data and have some default values. The&nbsp;values can be updated from Inventory Parameter UI or from rest APIs. Honor Future Segment&nbsp; To configure Honor Future Segment ID, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu &gt; Application Configuration &gt; Manage Inventory Configuration &gt; Inventory Parameters In the Inventory Parameters page, enter the Inventory Parameters ID. Select the Honor Future Segment ID check box to honor segment ID on future inventory supplies. Refer segmentation for more details. Evaluate Reservation Match Change To configure Evaluate Reservation Match Change, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu &gt; Application Configuration &gt; Manage Inventory Configuration &gt; Inventory Parameters In the Inventory Parameters page, enter the Inventory Parameters ID. Select the Evaluate Reservation Match Change check box to intimate the customer when there is any change in quantity/ETA of the reservation. Order line mod types &ldquo;Update Reservation Match Quantity&rdquo; and &ldquo;Update Reservation Match ETA&rdquo; should be configured for the same. On Hand / Future Supply Purge Days&nbsp; To configure On Hand / Future Supply Purge Days, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu &gt; Application Configuration &gt; Manage Inventory Configuration &gt; Inventory Parameters In the Inventory Parameters page, enter the Inventory Parameters ID. Enter Future Supply Purge Days to set the number of days to purge future supply records. PO/ASN supply quantity and allocated quantity should be Zero. Enter On Hand&nbsp;&nbsp;Supply Purge Days to set the number of days to purge on hand supply records. On Hand&nbsp;supply quantity and allocated quantity should be Zero. Note :&nbsp;Please ensure that the properties &quot;On Hand Supply Purge Days&quot; and &quot;Future Supply Purge Days&quot; have values that are equal to or greater than the minimum default purge days. If no value is provided, the properties will be automatically set to their respective default values. The default value for &quot;On Hand Supply Purge Days&quot; is 180, with a minimum default value of 30. The default value for &quot;Future Supply Purge Days&quot; is 180, with a minimum default value of 7. It is important to note that negative values are allowed for both properties. If the value is less than 0 (negative), no purge date will be assigned. Negative value purge days should be configured when there is no intention of purging the supplies (On Hand / Future). Empty Availability Out Bound Page&nbsp; To configure Empty Availability Out Bound Page, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu &gt; Application Configuration &gt; Manage Inventory Configuration &gt; Inventory Parameters In the Inventory Parameters page, enter the Inventory Parameters ID. Select the Empty Availability Out Bound Page check box to send empty outbound page for non-zero Sync. This is for host system that needs to have an empty page to understand that the location does not have available inventory. Reduce Utilized Capacity To configure Reduce Utilized Capacity, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu &gt; Application Configuration &gt; Manage Inventory Configuration &gt; Inventory Parameters In the Inventory Parameters page, enter the Inventory Parameters ID. Select the Reduce Utilized Capacity check box to reduce capacity utilizations for intra-shift shipments. If this parameter is turned on and a shipment happens during a shift, the capacity utilized is reduced to allow more orders to be allocated to that location. Location Inclusion Delay To configure Location Inclusion Delay, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu &gt; Application Configuration &gt; Manage Inventory Configuration &gt; Inventory Parameters In the Inventory Parameters page, enter the Inventory Parameters ID. Enter Location Inclusion Delay time in minutes to wait before location is included in the view for capacity reasons. This is to be used in association with the Reduced Utilized Capacity parameter. This allows for a delay after the capacity is released for the location to be re-included in the view. This delay allows for more shipments to happen to release more capacity to reduce the number of times the location &ldquo;capacity full&rdquo; flag flips value. Get Supply Details From Cache&nbsp; To configure Get Supply Details From Cache, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu &gt; Application Configuration &gt; Manage Inventory Configuration &gt; Inventory Parameters In the Inventory Parameters page, enter the Inventory Parameters ID. Select the Get Supply Details From Cache check box to get supply details from availability cache. This parameter can be turned on even without interactive inventory license. Make sure the availability cache is deployed before turning it on. Consider Receipt Time For Allocation&nbsp; To configure Consider Receipt Time For Allocation, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu &gt; Application Configuration &gt; Manage Inventory Configuration &gt; Inventory Parameters In the Inventory Parameters page, enter the Inventory Parameters ID. Select the Consider Receipt Time For Allocation check box to honor receipt processing time for backward scheduling. By default, system considers receipt time during forward scheduling. Sync Detail Persistence Days To view Sync Detail Persistence Days, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu &gt; Application Configuration &gt; Manage Inventory Configuration &gt; Inventory Parameters In the Inventory Parameters page, enter the Inventory Parameters ID. Sync Detail Persistence Days indicates the number of days before sync details are purged. This will purge only the completed syncs. Note that this field is not editable. Get Availability Cache&nbsp; To configure Get Availability Cache, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu &gt; Application Configuration &gt; Manage Inventory Configuration &gt; Inventory Parameters In the Inventory Parameters page, enter the Inventory Parameters ID. Select the Get Availability Cache check box to enable availability calls from availability cache. This parameter can be turned on even without interactive inventory license. Make sure the availability cache is deployed before turning it on. Delivery Earliest&nbsp;Lead Time&nbsp; Delivery Earliest&nbsp;Lead Time is used when future dated orders are configured to prioritize ASN and PO inventory over on hand, ensuring on hand inventory is available for immediate customer needs. Refer How scheduling works for more details. To configure Delivery Earliest&nbsp;Lead Time, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu &gt; Application Configuration &gt; Manage Inventory Configuration &gt; Inventory Parameters In the Inventory Parameters page, enter the Inventory Parameters ID. Enter&nbsp;Delivery Earliest&nbsp;Lead Time in hrs.&nbsp;It allows the business to define when (how many hours before the scheduled release date) to re-evaluate the allocation to prioritize on hand inventory. For example: If an order is scheduled to release in 20 days and is allocated to a PO, setting this parameter to 48 hrs would ensure that 2 days before the release date Active Omni validates if the order is allocated to on hand inventory and if it is not, re-evaluate the allocation to prioritize on hand inventory. &nbsp;