# Inventories

**Permalink:** inventories
**Content Length:** 4,797 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:29.903750

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Inventory ››Inventories Inventories &nbsp; &nbsp; InventoriesField DescriptionAction Buttons Manhattan Enterprise Inventory provides retailers with a complete and real-time view of perpetual inventory across every fulfillment location in the enterprise including: stores, in-transit, on-order and third-party owned/fulfilled inventory. Using open APIs to synchronize inventory positions across a retailer&rsquo;s network and external applications in real time, Manhattan Enterprise Inventory delivers the global view of inventory &ndash; a retailer needs to power-omni-channel commerce. The Inventories supply&nbsp;UI enables you to view supply details of an organization.&nbsp;This screen will display the supplies&nbsp;for both DC and Stores. This&nbsp; is a read-only screen.&nbsp;The Filter Panel on the Inventories page helps you to set up the filter condition to drill down to specific information. &nbsp; Filters:&nbsp;You can use the following Inventories filters: Reserved Quanity ETA Item ID Location ID Quantity Reference ID Reference Type Supply Type Unit of Measure Field Description The field descriptions of inventory attributes: &nbsp; Field Description Reserved Quanity The reserved quantity of the inventory supply. ETA The estimated time of arrival&nbsp;of the inventory supply. This is a date field. Item Id&nbsp; The Item identifier. Location Id The location identifier. Quanity The inventory supply quantity. Refference ID The reference identifier for the inventory supply. Refference Type The&nbsp;reference type for the&nbsp;inventory supply. Supply Type The supply type for the inventory supply. Unit of Measure The unit of measure for inventory supply. &nbsp; &nbsp; Action Buttons The following action buttons are available on the page: &nbsp; Field &nbsp; &nbsp;Description &nbsp; Select All Rows Select all the rows of records on the screen. Related Links Click&nbsp;Related Links&nbsp;and select&nbsp;View Items&nbsp;to navigate to the Items&nbsp;screen.&nbsp; Export Click to export the list of inventory supply attributes. The file gets downloaded to your system. See&nbsp;Export&nbsp;for more information. &nbsp;