# Inventory Supply

**Permalink:** inventory_supply
**Content Length:** 6,499 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:34:38.548196

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Enterprise Inventory ››Inventory Supply Inventory Supply The Inventory Supply UI enables you to view supply details of an organization. The Filter Panel in the Inventory Supply page helps you to set up the filter condition to drill down to specific information.&nbsp;The Inventory Supply UI is not extensible. No custom buttons, links, or panels can be added, and icons cannot be customized.&nbsp; To search for the inventory supply, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu &gt; Inventory Supply In the Filter panel, you can enter the following filters: Click the &nbsp;icon in the Location ID, Item ID and Supply Type ID fields. The corresponding pop-up window is displayed. Enter the search criteria and select the appropriate record. Select the View and Include Errored Supply? options. To extend the range of filter criteria, click More and enable more filter options. After entering the filter criteria in the filter panel, click Apply. The supply detail records are displayed in paginated form with 10&nbsp;records in each page. However, the user can increase the number of records in each page. Refer to How Reservation Works&nbsp;for more information. Note:&nbsp;The Location ID or&nbsp;Item ID needs to be provided as a mandatory filter to search for the inventory supply. Difference between Inventory Supply UI vs ATC UI Inventory supply UI displays the perpetual supply quantity, available quantity for every supply record for the Item-Location combination. Whereas, ATC UI displays the aggregated available quantity for the Item (across all eligible locations) for a Network view and available quantity for the Item (at specific location) for a Location view. Example &ndash; Consider the following Inventory supply records for an Item and Location. Item Location Supply Type Quantity Reference Type Reference ID Reference Detail ID Item 1 Store 1 On Hand Available &nbsp; 100 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Item 1 Store 1&nbsp; On Hand Available Soon 50 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Item 1 Store 1 On Order 30 PO PO 1 PO Line 1 &nbsp; Inventory Supply UI will display the above records along with the Available quantity. Location View will display the value as 180 units for Item 1 and Store 1. Network level protection doesn&rsquo;t get applied on Inventory supply UI whereas Rule set level (Item-Location) protection quantity gets applied for every Inventory supply record. But for Network view &ndash; Network level protection gets applied. If there are Outage, Capacity full, Store Exclusion, Nonmatching commerce characteristics, then corresponding Item-Location records are not displayed in Inventory supply UI. In ATC UI also, these records are ignored while computing the Available quantity. Grants Inventory Supply have certain features that require&nbsp;special grants to perform the desired function. Grants Details omnifacade::inventory::supplydetails::read To view the Inventory Supply screen. omnifacade::inventory::supplydetails::reseterror&nbsp; To view reset error button.