# Item Location Constraint

**Permalink:** item-location-constraints
**Content Length:** 16,723 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:40.034841

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Configurations&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Item Location ››Item Location Constraint Item Location Constraint Item Location ConstraintFiltersCreating an Item Location ConstraintEditing an Item Location ConstraintDeleting an ItemLocation ConstraintField Description Item location constraints are used to configure inventory constraints for a location at the item hierarchy level.&nbsp; These inventory constraints are considered while planning allocation quantities for each item for the respective stores.&nbsp; Constraints can also be interfaced based on the itemHierarchyFilter for the specific location. &nbsp; For example,&nbsp; Item&nbsp;Location Constraints can be configured as below. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Item Hierarchy Filter &nbsp; Location &nbsp; Constraints &nbsp; 1 Men’s Atlanta-Store Minimum 100 Maximum 120 2 Men's → Formals → Tops Atlanta-Store Minimum 50 Maximum 75 &nbsp; The Constraints for items with different hierarchy values are derived below. &nbsp; Item Hierarchy Filter &nbsp; Location &nbsp; Grade &nbsp; Men's → Formals → Tops → Half-sleeve Atlanta-Store Minimum 50 Maximum 75 (both the constraints are matching since the department is 'Men'. Out of that, we will consider the second constraint available at the lowest hierarchy level. ) Men's → Formals → Bottom Atlanta-Store Minimum 100 Maximum 120 (Here only the first constraint is matching since the subclassId (bottom) is different for the item) &nbsp; Filters The&nbsp; item location constraint&nbsp;filters are: Location Id Maximum Quantity Minimum&nbsp;Quantity&nbsp; Hierarchy Level 1 Hierarchy Level 2 Hierarchy Level 3 Hierarchy Level 4 Hierarchy Level 5 Hierarchy Level 6 Note:&nbsp;Only six hierarchy filters will be displayed in the filter panel. Users can add&nbsp;the rest of the hierarchy levels from the Available Filters section in&nbsp;the Customize Filters window.&nbsp;&nbsp; Creating an Item Location Constraint &nbsp; To create a new item location constraint: &nbsp; Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Configurations&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Item Location&nbsp;&gt; Item Location Constraint Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Click&nbsp;Create&nbsp;to view the&nbsp;Item Location Constraint&nbsp;window.&nbsp; On the&nbsp;Item Location Constraint&nbsp;page, enter a unique&nbsp;Location Id. Select&nbsp;Hierarchy Level 1&nbsp;(This field is mandatory),&nbsp;&nbsp;Hierarchy Level 2,&nbsp;&nbsp;Hierarchy Level 3,&nbsp; and all the other applicable Hierarchy Levels from the respective&nbsp;drop-down lists.&nbsp;The number of hierarchy fields displayed here will depend on how many hierarchy levels are configured. Hierarchy Level 1 must be defined before Hierarchy Level 2 and so on.&nbsp; The first hierarchy level value drop-down contains distinct entries from the corresponding field in the item entity.&nbsp;The next hierarchy level value drop-down contains distinct entities from the corresponding field in the item entity with matching hierarchy values in the previous level.&nbsp;All higher hierarchy levels must be defined.&nbsp; Enter the maximum and minimum&nbsp;Quantity constraints for an item. Enter the&nbsp;maximum and minimum UOM (Unit of Measure) for an item. Click&nbsp;Save and Finish. Editing an Item Location Constraint &nbsp; To edit an item location constraint: Swipe-out List Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Configuration&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Item Location&nbsp;&gt; Item Location Constraint Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Select the required constraint record. Swipe-out the menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Edit. In the&nbsp;Item Location Constraint&nbsp;window, modify the required fields. The Quantity (Max and Min)&nbsp;and&nbsp;UOM&nbsp;(Max and Min) fields are editable. Click&nbsp;Save & Close&nbsp;to save the modified constraint details. Edit View Select the required constraint record card. The action buttons are displayed in the footer section. Click&nbsp;Edit&nbsp;to view the&nbsp;Item Location Constraint&nbsp;window, and modify the required fields.&nbsp;The Quantity (Max and Min)&nbsp;and&nbsp;UOM&nbsp;(Max and Min) fields are editable. Click&nbsp;Save & Close&nbsp;to save the modified constraint details. Deleting an ItemLocation Constraint The item&nbsp;location constraint records can be deleted by following one of the below procedures: Swipe-out List Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Configurations&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Item Location&nbsp;&gt; Item Location Constraint Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Swipe-out menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts as '&nbsp;Deletion of item location constraint is irreversible'. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the constraint. Delete Select the required record card. The footer section with action buttons is displayed. Select&nbsp;Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts as 'Deletion of item location constraint is irreversible'. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the constraint. Field Description The following are the field descriptions of the attributes available on the screen. &nbsp; Field &nbsp; Description &nbsp; Location Id An alphanumeric ID that uniquely defines each constraint. Select the location Id from the Location Lookup window. Hierarchy Level 1 to Hierarchy Level 10 The item hierarchy levels. Quantity (Maximum) &nbsp; The upper threshold of inventory allowed for an item at a store. Quantity (Minimum) The lower threshold&nbsp;of inventory allowed for an item at a store. UOM ((Maximum) The maximum&nbsp;quantity with UOM indicates the inventory capacity of the store. UOM (Minimum) The minimum quantity with UOM indicates the inventory capacity of the store. &nbsp; Action Buttons &nbsp; The following are the action buttons available on the screen. &nbsp; Select All Rows Selects all the rows of records on the screen. Export Exports the list of constraint attributes, and the file will be downloaded onto your system. View&nbsp;Export&nbsp;for more information. Export Data Loader It&nbsp;allows a user to export the data&nbsp;that is returned from the filter on the UI into a spreadsheet format. All fields will be exported. There is no option to select specific fields to be exported. Export Data Loader process is asynchronous. &nbsp; Upon completion of the export, an alert notification will appear on the&nbsp;top right corner of the UI. Import Data Loader It allows a user to import data from a spreadsheet into the system.&nbsp;The user can use the exported spreadsheet as a template for importing new data into the system.&nbsp;When this import data loader button is clicked, the user is presented with a modal where they can choose the file name and the location to upload from.&nbsp;&nbsp;Upon completion of the import,&nbsp;an alert notification will appear on the top right corner of the UI.&nbsp; Create Opens the&nbsp;Create Item Location Constraint&nbsp;window.&nbsp; Deselect Clears the selected records. Edit Opens the relevant&nbsp;Item Location Constraint&nbsp;window. Delete Deletes the selected record. &nbsp; &nbsp; Note: For items with planning type A (Allocation), the Minimum and Maximum values must be maintained through the Item Location Constraints screen. These values are not directly saved through the Item Location screen for such items. In contrast, for items with planning type R (Replenishment), the Minimum and Maximum values can be directly updated and saved in the Item Location screen. Although the Item Location UI displays these fields for all item types, the underlying data handling depends on the item's planning type. Therefore, for Allocation-type items, users should refer to and maintain values via the Item Location Constraints screen.