# Items

**Permalink:** items
**Content Length:** 16,895 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:56.313786

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Configurations ››Items Items &nbsp; &nbsp; ItemsFiltersCreating&nbsp;an&nbsp;ItemEditing&nbsp;an Item&nbsp;Deleting an Item&nbsp;Field Description Item configuration is one of the main components of any organization&#39;s settings. The item&nbsp;represents&nbsp;merchandise or other sellable commodities for any organization. The&nbsp;configuration is used to define attributes at the size level.&nbsp;This item feature enables you to add, modify or delete an&nbsp;item attribute for the&nbsp;organization.&nbsp;It also displays a list of items with the corresponding attributes.&nbsp; &nbsp; Filters The allocation filters are used to filter records based on different criteria: &nbsp;item&nbsp;ID &nbsp;Name &nbsp;Item Type &nbsp;Department Number &nbsp;Product Class &nbsp;Product Subclass &nbsp;Size Style&nbsp; Selling Season Code Active Color View Item Locations &nbsp; Creating&nbsp;an&nbsp;Item A new item can be created for an organization and it is created using the item creation wizard. The following is the item flow. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Item Work Flow &nbsp; To create a new item: &nbsp; Select Menu &gt; Configurations&nbsp;&gt; Item Enter the filter criteria and click Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Click Create to view Create New Item wizard. The wizard is categorized into different sections. &nbsp;In the General section of the wizard,&nbsp;&nbsp;enter the item information such as Item Id, Description, Short Description,&nbsp;Selling Season Code, Active (Yes or No) options, Department Number, Product Class, Product Subclass, Style, Color, Size,&nbsp;Size Category,&nbsp;LargeImage Url, and&nbsp;SmallImage Url. Note: All mandatory fields are denoted with *. Click Save and Continue.&nbsp;&nbsp; In the&nbsp;Purchasing Attributes&nbsp;section,&nbsp;Click&nbsp;Add New. The ADD NEW lookup window opens.&nbsp;&nbsp; Enter purchasing attributes such as Average Purchase Price,&nbsp;Purchase Price UOM, and Vendor details. Click Save and Continue. &nbsp;In the Custom Attributes&nbsp;section,&nbsp;Click&nbsp;Add New. The ADD NEW lookup window opens.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;Enter custom attributes such as Type and Value. Click Submit.&nbsp; Click&nbsp;&nbsp;Save and Continue. In the&nbsp; Select&nbsp;Fulfillment Options section,&nbsp;Select&nbsp;Ship To Address,&nbsp;and&nbsp;Pickup In-Store&nbsp;item attributes for fulfillment options by selecting Yes or No options. The default value of these new attributes is &#39;Yes&#39;. Click&nbsp; Save and Finish. A&nbsp;new item&nbsp;is created. &nbsp; Editing&nbsp;an Item&nbsp; You can edit the attributes of the existing item information using an item record.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Note: You can edit an item record in 3 different ways, like the swipe-out board, Edit, and Details button.&nbsp; Navigate to Menu &gt;&nbsp;Configurations&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Item Enter the filter criteria and click Apply. The item records&nbsp;are listed in the pane. Swipe Out List Select the required item record. Swipe-out the menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Edit. In the Edit Item&nbsp;window, modify the required fields except for Item Id. Click&nbsp;Save & Close&nbsp;to save the modified item details. Edit View Select the required item record. The action buttons are displayed in the footer section. In the Edit Item&nbsp;window, modify the required fields except for Item Id. Click&nbsp;Save & Close&nbsp;to save the modified item details. Details View Select the required item record.&nbsp;The footer section with action buttons is displayed. Click the Details button to view Item details. The Item screen displays the Item attributes. Using the Expand and Collapse button, users can view and edit the item details. Click the Edit button to view the Edit Item&nbsp;wizard. Modify the required sections. Click Save and Finish to complete editing item information. &nbsp; Deleting an Item&nbsp; The item records can be deleted by following the steps. &nbsp; Note: You can delete an item record in 2 different ways, like the Swipe-out board and Delete button. Navigate to Menu &gt;&nbsp;Configurations &gt; Item Enter the filter criteria and click Apply. The item records are displayed in the list pane. Swipe Out List Select the Swipe-out&nbsp;board option on the required record card and select&nbsp;Delete. A warning message pop-up prompts as&nbsp;&#39;Deletion of Item is irreversible&#39;. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the item record. Delete Select the required record card. The footer section with action buttons is displayed. A warning message pop-up prompts as&nbsp;&#39;Deletion of Item is irreversible&#39;. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the item record. Field Description Below is the complete list of attributes available on this screen. These fields will be visible when you create/edit/delete item records on the screen. &nbsp; The following are the field descriptions of the attributes available on the screen. Field Description General&nbsp; Item Id The unique identifier of the item. Description The description of the item. Short Description A short description of the item. Active&nbsp; Select this active item using&nbsp;Yes or No options.&nbsp; From this option, the user can&nbsp;create or update and filter the item and interface too. The&nbsp;default value is&nbsp; &#39;No&#39;. Selling Season Code The selling season code of the item. Department Number Defines the organization hierarchy structure which is set for the item created. This classification enables the organization to easily summarize data using each level within the department. For example, an item hierarchy in the men&#39;s wear department. Product Class The item hierarchy as a product class. Example:&nbsp;Casuals Product Subclass The product subclass of the item. This field is used as part of the default item hierarchy. Example:&nbsp;Bottoms Style&nbsp; Styles classify the different styles of an item.&nbsp; The style is associated with a Style template, which indicates the variation of an item within a style like colours and sizes. Color The color of the item. Size The size profiles are the indicators of the size level break of the historical demand. Users can&nbsp;assign the size profile for a store at various levels of the item hierarchy. Size Category Size Category Identifier. Size category Id reference from the Size category entity. LargeImage Url URI of the large image for the item SmallImage Url URI of the small image for the item. Purchasing Attributes Average Purchase Price The average purchase&nbsp;price&nbsp;is the normal&nbsp;purchase&nbsp;price&nbsp;for an item. &nbsp; Purchase Price UOM The unit of measure for an individual purchasing price for an item. Vendor The vendor of the item. Custom Attributes Type The custom attributes type for an item. Value The custom attribute value for an item. Fulfillment Options Ship To Address Pickup In Store Specify the item&nbsp;attributes for fulfillment options&nbsp;by selecting Yes or No options. These are boolean attributes.&nbsp; The default value of these attributes is &#39;Yes&#39;. Action&nbsp;Buttons Export Export the list of item attributes. The file gets downloaded to your system. See Export for more information. Select All Rows&nbsp; Select all the records created for the item. Create Opens the&nbsp;Create Item&nbsp;window.&nbsp; Export Data Loader It&nbsp;allows a user to export the data that is returned from the filter on the UI into a spreadsheet format. All fields will be exported. There is no option to select specific fields to be exported. Export Data Loader process is asynchronous. &nbsp; Upon completion of the export, an alert notification will appear on the&nbsp;top right corner of the UI. Import Data Loader It allows a user to import data from a spreadsheet into the system.&nbsp;The user can use the exported spreadsheet as a template for importing new data into the system.&nbsp; When this import data loader button is clicked, the user is presented with a modal where they can choose the file name and the location to upload from.&nbsp;&nbsp; Upon completion of the import, an alert notification will appear on the top right corner of the UI.&nbsp; Deselect Clear the selected records. Edit&nbsp; Edit the item records. This button is available in multiple sections of the screen.&nbsp; Details Navigate to the Item window to edit the record. Delete Delete the item records. &nbsp;