# Item Substitution

**Permalink:** item-substitution
**Content Length:** 3,264 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:33:50.888661

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Digital Self-Service ››Item Substitution Item Substitution OverviewDetails Overview Digital Self-Service&nbsp;features differentiate substituted items in the customer order from the originally ordered items. The&nbsp;substituted items are identified&nbsp;with a substituted arrow icon which is displayed&nbsp;in the top right corner of the item image. Details The features which create or display only the customer orders will identify substituted items; return orders will not identify items which were substituted in the original customer order.&nbsp;The&nbsp;order summary sections in all the features reflect the fulfilled, or substituted item. Additionally, if a certain feature is not supported for substituted items, then it is addressed appropriately in the UI.&nbsp;&nbsp; The following are some&nbsp;important points to be noted related to individual features:&nbsp; For some Digital Self-Service features, the only change is identifying the substituted item. Add Alternate Pickup Person Curbside Pickup Extend Pickup Pay By Link Payment Recovery Refund By Link Shipment Tracking Manage Orders For some Digital Self-Service features, the UI will behave appropriately based on what is supported in the Order processing. Change Shipping Address : If there is at least one&nbsp;substituted&nbsp;item in the shipment, the shipping address cannot be changed for that shipment. Order Cancelation : A&nbsp;substituted item cannot be canceled.&nbsp; Ship It Instead : If there is at least one&nbsp;substituted&nbsp;item in a customer&nbsp;order, it cannot be shipped instead of pickup. Ship It Instead - Store Short : If there is at least one&nbsp;substituted&nbsp;item in a customer&nbsp;order, it cannot be shipped instead of pickup. Creating a Return and/or Exchange Order : A&nbsp;substituted&nbsp;item in a customer&nbsp;order can be returned or exchanged.