# Item Hierarchies

**Permalink:** item-hierarchies
**Content Length:** 8,241 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:57.089038

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Configurations&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Items ››Item Hierarchies Item Hierarchies &nbsp; Item HierarchiesFiltersCreating an Item HierarchyEditing an ItemHierarchyDeleting an Item HierarchyField DescriptionAction Buttons Item hierarchies are defined using the attributes of the items. Item Hierarchy is a system that is&nbsp;used to describe the different levels of an&nbsp;item category. You can create, view, or edit the various available item hierarchy levels on this page.&nbsp;By default, there is one &#39;Primary&#39;&nbsp;hierarchy defined in the system. Users can define any number of item hierarchies. This will provide the ability to manage certain configurations for a logical group of items rather than for individual items. &nbsp; Eg. &ldquo;Store 1&rdquo; is &ldquo;A Grade&rdquo; store for all items&nbsp;under &ldquo;Department 1&rdquo; The hierarchy structure with parent-child relationship(Nodes) details does not persist. It is dynamically derived when it is used in different allocation processes/workflows. Hence, when there is a change to the hierarchy definition when the subsequent processes run next time, it will use the new definition. Other than that, there is no impact. &nbsp; Filters Item Hierarchy Description &nbsp; Creating an Item Hierarchy &nbsp; To create a new item hierarchy: &nbsp; Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt; Configurations &gt;&nbsp;Item&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Item Hierarchies Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Click Create to view the Item&nbsp;Hierarchy window. Enter the Item Hierarchy and Description. &nbsp;Click Save. Note:&nbsp;All mandatory fields are denoted with *. Editing an ItemHierarchy &nbsp; To edit an item hierarchy: &nbsp; Swipe-out List Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt; Configurations &gt;&nbsp;Item&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Item Hierarchies Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Select the required hierarchy record. Swipe-out the menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Edit. In the Item Hierarchy window, modify the required fields. Click&nbsp;Save to save the modified hierarchy details. Edit View Select the required policy record card. The action buttons are displayed in the footer section. Click&nbsp;Edit&nbsp;to view the Item Hierarchy&nbsp;window, and modify the required fields. Click&nbsp;Save to save the modified hierarchy details. &nbsp; Deleting an Item Hierarchy &nbsp; Swipe-out List Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt; Configurations &gt;&nbsp;Item&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Item Hierarchies Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Swipe-out menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts as &#39;Deletion of Item Hierarchy is irreversible&#39;. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the policy. Delete Select the required record card. The footer section with action buttons is displayed. Select&nbsp;Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts as &#39;Deletion of Item Hierarchy is irreversible&#39;. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the policy. &nbsp; Field Description The following are the field descriptions of the attributes available on the screen. &nbsp; Field &nbsp; Description &nbsp; Item Hierarchy Specifies the item hierarchy name. Description The description of the hierarchy. Created By Mentions the name of the user who created the item hierarchy. Created Timestamp Specifies the date and time of the creation of the item hierarchy. &nbsp; Action Buttons The following are the action buttons available on the screen. &nbsp; Select All Rows Selects all the rows of records on the screen. Export Exports the list of item hierarchy attributes, and the file will be downloaded onto your system. View&nbsp;Export&nbsp;for more information. Create Opens the&nbsp;Item Hierarchy&nbsp;window.&nbsp; Deselect Clears the selected records. Details Opens the Item Hierarchy window displaying details of the selected record. Edit Opens the Item Hierarchy window for editing the selected record. Delete Deletes the selected record.