# Item Location

**Permalink:** item-location-2
**Content Length:** 13,079 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:37.680420

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Configurations&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Item Location ››Item Location Item Location &nbsp; Item LocationFiltersViewing an Item Location&nbsp;RecordField Description Item location enables you to configure the parameters of an item that is available at a selected store. The parameters are used to allocate inventory across stores. For instance, the parameters are allocated to stores such as store grades, constraints, and lead time. Item-location (IL) entities are created only at the leaf level (size level). This entity represents an item stocked at a physical location (such as DC or store) or a virtual location (demand channel or segment). An Item-Location is the lowest level where the system maintains forecasting and stock status information. This entity is to hold the configuration of an item for a specific location.&nbsp; Note: The forecast entity is generated for&nbsp;new item location only when the forecast initialization nightly job runs. The forecast initialization nightly job should always run before the allocation job when the ‘ForecastingNotificationEnabled’ is true in itemLocationConfig. The following attributes can be interfaced for Item-locations at size level. Lead-time Out of stock point Inv Threshold Green/Yellow Min/Max Forecast accuracy lag Manual lifecycle forecast Current selling point Selling Point UOM If any of these attribute values are not available, the system will ignore that attribute in respective processes. &nbsp; Filters The&nbsp; item location filters are: Item&nbsp; Location Active Activation Date First Sale date Size Profile &nbsp; Viewing an Item Location&nbsp;Record You can view attributes for an existing item location by using the item location record.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Note: The item location records can be viewed in two ways:&nbsp;the swipe-out board, and the Details button.&nbsp;To view an item location record, Navigate to Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Configurations&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Item Location &gt; Item Location Swipe Out List Select the&nbsp;item location record. Swipe-out the menu on the selected record-card and select&nbsp;Details. You can view the item location details such as&nbsp;Item,&nbsp;Location, Grade, Active,&nbsp;Activation Date,&nbsp;Discontinued Date, and First Sale Date. In the Inventory section:&nbsp;Lead Time, Out Of Stock Point, Minimum, Maximum, Inv Threshold (Green), Inv Threshold (Yellow). In the Forecast section: Forecast Accuracy Lag, and Manual Lifecycle Forecast.&nbsp; In the&nbsp;Size Profile Detail section:&nbsp; Size, Demand Ratio, and Sales Ratio. In the&nbsp;Additional Attributes section:&nbsp;Current Selling Price, and&nbsp;Current Selling Price UOM Note: You can collapse and expand the rows by clicking - or + on the Inventory, Forecast, Size Profile Details, and&nbsp;Additional Attributes sections. Details View Select the record-card. The action buttons on the footer section of the screen are&nbsp;displayed. Click the&nbsp;Details&nbsp;button to view Item Location&nbsp;details. &nbsp; Field Description The following are the field description attributes: &nbsp; Field Description Item A unique identifier of the item. Location A unique identifier of the location. Grade Store grade applicable for the respective Item. Active Indicator to identify if the item -location is active or not. Allocation engine sets need to zero for inactive item locations. Also used in item location count&nbsp;during allocation. Activation Date The activation date is used in forecasting to define the launch week and selling duration. Both of these factors are used in determining the similarity between a similar item and the target item. Displays the date of activation for the item location.&nbsp;This is used in Modeling & Forecasting. For example, the launch week of 12 is more similar to launch week of 14 than launch week of 39. Discontinued Date Used in Forecasting only. First Sale Date Used to define business rules for allocation based on how far this date is from the season start date for that item location. Users can configure either a single metric or a set of metrics.&nbsp;&nbsp;So, the earliest date for the configured metrics will be enriched as the first sale date for the item location. Inventory Lead Time Lead time is the time required to move the inventory from DC to the store. Typically, this varies by item-location combination. Out Of Stock Point Displays when the item location&nbsp;is expected to reach out of the stock stage. Users can be able&nbsp;to specify a different value of the out-of-stock point for each size and use it for out-of-stock computation for a week. Minimum The allocation of minimum&nbsp;constraint&nbsp;is specified. These constraints are considered while planning allocation quantities for each item/item category for the respective stores. Maximum The allocation of maximum constraint&nbsp;is specified. These constraints are considered for planning allocation quantities for each item/item category for the respective stores. Inv Threshold (Green) It specifies inventory targets at item-location combinations to measure the available inventory based on current inventory and sales targets. Valid Values: The minimum value is 0. The maximum value is 100. Inv Threshold (Yellow) It specifies inventory targets at item-location combinations to measure how much inventory is available based on current inventory and sales targets. Valid Values: The minimum value is 0. The maximum value is 100. Forecast Forecast Accuracy Lag It represents the number of weeks before which the forecast is to be captured for measuring forecast accuracy. Manual Lifecycle Forecast This is a user-specified life cycle forecast for the item&nbsp;location. If ManualLifecycleForecast is 'true' on the item location, it overrides the computed Lifecycle Forecast value in demand forecasting. Size Profile Detail It displays the size, demand ratio, and sales ratio. Additional Attributes Current Selling Price&nbsp; The selling price used in transfers. The selling price of the source location versus the destination location is compared to determine savings. Current Selling Price UOM&nbsp; The current selling price (currency). &nbsp; Action Buttons The following are the action buttons available on the screen. &nbsp; Select All Rows Selects all the rows of records on the screen. Export Exports the list of item location attributes, and the file will be downloaded onto your system. View&nbsp;Export&nbsp;for more information. Related Links Displays the links to the View Items and View Locations pages from the current screen. Export Data Loader It&nbsp;allows a user to export the data&nbsp;that is returned from the filter on the UI into a spreadsheet format. All fields will be exported. There is no option to select specific fields to be exported. Export Data Loader process is asynchronous. &nbsp; Upon completion of the export, an alert notification will appear on the&nbsp;top right corner of the UI. &nbsp; Note: For items with planning type A (Allocation), the Minimum and Maximum values must be maintained through the Item Location Constraints screen. These values are not directly saved through the Item Location screen for such items. In contrast, for items with planning type R (Replenishment), the Minimum and Maximum values can be directly updated and saved in the Item Location screen. Although the Item Location UI displays these fields for all item types, the underlying data handling depends on the item's planning type. Therefore, for Allocation-type items, users should refer to and maintain values via the Item Location Constraints screen.