# Item Location Analysis

**Permalink:** item-location-analysis
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning/Process &amp; Configuration Guides/Dashboards/Item Location Analysis
**Content Length:** 23,275 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:09:21.145611

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning››Process & Configuration Guides››Dashboards ››Item Location Analysis Item Location Analysis Previous I OverviewConfigurationImplementation FlavorsUIs and EntitiesServicesTroubleshootingRelated Articles Overview The Item Location Analysis Screen, part of the MUP UI, offers a detailed view of SKUs (item-loc-src) and displays all order factors and configurations contributing to the Suggested Order Quantity (SOQ). Users can search, filter, and refine the list of relevant SKUs to analyze and apply batch configuration changes (reconfigure). Filters can be based on transactional data and configurations, encompassing SOQ, Forecast, Inventory, demand, and other item, item-loc, or relationship-level configurations. Values may be set at the leaf level or inherited from higher levels. The Item Location Analysis Details screen is a custom UI that allows users to view the factors and historical data points at this level which can influence and impact the current and future order quantities and KPIs. This is the one place where the user can analyze the order factors and historical data points together. Users can view Order Details tab with the Order factor values in Units, Days and Impact %, Forecast Tab with the forecast value and its Exceptions, Order Exceptions generated for this Item Location, History & Projections tab, the General tab. The user can override the attribute values set at a higher level. Additionally, users can perform actions on individual item locations, including recalculating values, clearing forecast or order exceptions, initializing forecasts, and freezing or unfreezing order quantities. The Item Location Analysis Details screen has the following tabs: Order Details Forecast Order Exception History & Projections General Order Details tab: The Order Details tab displays all the order factors to calculate the final SOQ. Order Factors Description Formula Order Point Added together, the safety stock, lead time, and review cycle equal an Item Location's order point (OP). Order Point (OP) = Safety Stock (SS) + Lead Time (LT) + r Review Cycle (RC). Order Up to Level Calculates an SOQ to increase the Item Location’s balance to this order up to a level, once the balance decreases below the order point. Order Up To Level (OUTL) = Safety Stock (SS) + Lead Time (LT) + greater of [Joint Order Cycle (JCYC) or Economic Order Cycle (EOC)] JCYC – The relationship’s order cycle shared by all the Item Locations in the relationship. EO Cycle – The optimum order cycle for the Item Location if you purchased it separately from the other Item Locations in the relationship. When the JCYC is greater than or equal to the EO Cycle, the OUTL equals the OP. Required Used to calculate the SOQ. Inventory Position Inventory position is the sum of on hand and order quantity subtracted from the committed quantity. Inventory Position = (On Hand + On Order) - Committed Quantity Suggested Used to calculate the SOQ as Buying Multiple as an  Additional Factors. Final The final order quantity is equal to the balanced quantity (can be overridden by the buyer). This is the quantity uses when it orders. Expressed in Units and in Days of Supply. Forecast tab: The demand forecast changes many of the calculations in the replenishment process. If the demand forecast is incorrect, it negatively affects every order. Attribute Description Seasonalized Forecast for Period Seasonalized base forecast for the current forecast period. Forecast for Period The Demand Forecast without the seasonal index for the period. Seasonal Index The Seasonal Index defines the seasonal adjustment factor used during the forecast update process. Demand Frequency (weeks) When Replenishment is integrated with Demand Forecasting (DF), DF computes a demand frequency which is a measure of the number of weeks in which at least one occurrence of demand is expected for the Item Location based on its history. The demand frequency is a measure of the intermittency of the demand for an Item Location. If an Item Location sells each week in its history, its demand frequency is likely to be computed as 1. However, if there are weeks with 0 demand between demand occurrences, the SKUs demand frequency is likely to be greater than 1. When the Demand Frequency is >1, replenishment adjusts the Order Point and Order Up to Level to ensure that there is sufficient stock available to cover the expected number of demand occurrences during the time periods covered by the Order Point/Order Up To Level. Standard Deviation Units Standard deviation of the forecast error during the forecast period. Sets the variability of the period forecast (which is factored by Demand Frequency, if Demand Frequency is greater than 1). This is used to calculate safety stock. Standard Deviation % The standard deviation of the forecast error during the forecast period is expressed as a percentage of the forecast. The Standard Deviation Percentage field is calculated by just dividing the Standard Deviation by the Deseasonalized Forecast for a Period multiplied by 100. Note: The Standard Deviation Percentage value is capped at 999%. Annual Forecast The Annual Forecast is the average yearly demand from the current period. Last Initialized Date The last date the forecast is initialized (FI). Forecast Freeze Type Type of forecast freeze applied. Selections: No Freeze Control - The frozen forecast quantity is not subject to freeze control. Increase Only - Demand Forecasting will change the frozen forecast quantity if demand increases. This sets a lower limit using the existing forecast as the threshold. Decrease Only - Demand Forecasting will change the frozen forecast quantity if demand decreases. This sets an upper limit using the existing forecast as the threshold. No Change - Never allow the frozen forecast quantity to change. Forecast Freeze End Date The optional end date for the forecast quantity freeze. Not specifying a date indicates the forecast freeze is to remain in effect until manually overridden. Order Exceptions Tab Order Exceptions identify order lines and order conditions that might require the buyers' attention. Buyers may need to review the order with an exception before approving the order. This tab displays all line exceptions. Unlike general exceptions, line exceptions specifically apply to individual lines or items within an order. History & Projections Tab The History & Projections tab displays a data grid and a chart, providing key insights through: Historical seasonalized forecast, sales, and promotional demand Current and future seasonalized forecast, as well as planned demand and the total forecast From the History and Projections tab, users can select a particular future period forecast to edit, and a right panel is provided to make necessary adjustments to the seasonalized forecast and to freeze the forecast.  Upon saving, changes on the right panel will be reflected on the main tab.  Changes to the current seasonal forecast and policy settings can be made from the first two tabs by clicking on the widget that has the relevant information. The next forecast update process will calculate the forecast using this manually entered seasonal forecast and policy settings. More details are available in the Future Forecast Adjustments process and configuration guides. The Item Locaion Analysis UI graph provides a clear and detailed visualization of sales history, forecast trends, and seasonality, allowing users to analyze and interpret forecast data effectively. The graph consists of well-defined X and Y axes, interactive legends, and stacked bars to represent various data points. The X-axis represents the time range and is set to a default zoom level of one year. Users have the flexibility to zoom in for a more detailed view or zoom out to see a broader range of data. On the left side of the graph, the Y-axis represents the number of units, which are displayed as stacked bars and a line chart. The minimum value for stacked bars is set to zero, ensuring that any negative values are automatically shown as zero to maintain data clarity. On the right side, the Y-axis represents the seasonal index, which is displayed as a shaded area, helping users identify seasonal patterns that impact sales and forecasts. At the bottom of the graph, a legend allows users to toggle specific data points on or off for better visualization. The legend follows a specific order, starting with raw sales, followed by lost sales, cleansed sales, promotional demand, seasonal profile, forecast, and planned demand. This structured arrangement makes it easier for users to distinguish different forecast components and analyze their impact. The graph includes multiple stacked bars and line charts to represent key forecasting elements. Sales history, which reflects raw sales data, is displayed alongside cleansed demand. The forecast, whether system-generated or manually adjusted, is shown as a key reference point, as it is used for inventory optimization. A shaded area represents the seasonal profile, helping users understand seasonal trends over time. Effective lost sales data, whether interfaced or estimated, is included as part of the stacked bars, along with promotional demand, which accounts for either interfaced or estimated promotional sales. Planned demand, covering both past and future periods, is also represented within the stacked bars. The total forecast is visually represented as a combination of the seasonalized forecast and planned demand. This approach ensures that all forecast components are accounted for in a comprehensive and structured manner. By integrating these elements into a single interactive graph, users can analyze trends, identify exceptions, and make data-driven decisions with ease. Note: Total Forecast (Seasonalized Forecast + Planned Demand) General Tab The general tab displays the following container below.  Users can view attributes inherited from the parent level and modify them by selecting the 'Edit' button. General Attributes Packaging Minimum and Maximum Buying Multiple Cost Factors Purchase Price and Constraints Service Investment Strategy Life Cycle Code Configuration Standard Deviation Configuration How to set up Item Location Analysis? API - {{url}}/ai-inventoryoptimization/api/ai-inventoryoptimization/suggestedOrderLine/search Implementation Flavors NA UIs and Entities The configuration UIs mentioned in this document are listed in the following table, along with information to navigate to the API documentation. UI Name Component Group Seed Data Present? Seed Data Profile Item Location Analysis inventoryoptimization/ Services The APIs listed in the following table are referenced in this document. Refer to the API documentation for additional details on each service. Service Component Group Service Endpoint Item Location Analysis inventoryoptimization ai-inventoryoptimization/api/ai-inventoryoptimization/suggestedOrderLine/search Troubleshooting Q. Why are we using the default filter in the Item Location Analysis screen ? A. We recommend using a default filter to improve the screen load time. In the base, we are applying Active to Life Cycle Status as a default filter in the Item Location Analysis screen. Based on the customer request, we can always edit/remove/apply this default filter to a different attribute using the metadata editor and proactive. Using the metadata editor, we can edit the default filter in the ItemLocationAnalysisFilter.json file shown in the screenshot below. We can modify the AttributeName and AttributeValues of the default filter based on the requirement. "DefaultFilters": [ { "AttributeName": "InventoryMovementDetail.LifeCycleStatusId", "AttributeValues": [ "Active" ], "UID": "DefaultFilters1" } ], Q: In the Item location Analysis screen → Forecast tab → Seasonal Forecast for Period shows 0, whereas ‘Seasonal Forecast’ for the current period in History & Projections (Item Location Analysis) shows values. Why is there a discrepancy? A: This can happen if the order is in the status ‘Review in Progress’. When an order is in the status of ‘Review in Progress’, the system does not update the numbers on the Suggested Order, to not confuse the users who are reviewing the order. Related Articles Inventory ConsoleAllocators ConsoleUnified Business Planning Console