# Promotional Events Configuration

**Permalink:** item-pricing-and-promotional-events-configuration
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Store/Process & Configuration Guides/Point of Sale/POS Guides/Pricing and Promotional Events/Promotional Events Configuration
**Content Length:** 231,531 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:02:18.776788

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Store››Process & Configuration Guides››Point of Sale››POS Guides››Pricing and Promotional Events ››Promotional Events Configuration Promotional Events Configuration Promotional ConfigurationsGlobal Parameters and Deal List SettingsMiscellaneous Global Promo ConfigurationsDeal List FiltersPromotion ConfiguratorPromotional DealsDeal Header AttributesDeal Detail Concepts and SettingsQualifier InclusionsTarget InclusionsBenefitQualifier and Target ExclusionsDefining a qualifier/target inclusion and exclusion rule - using AND vs ORImporting large numbers of Inclusions/Exclusions How To Create Exclusions/Inclusions With Special CharactersQualifier and Target Templates and Benefit ProrationPromotional Events and Location GroupsPromotional Event Location GroupBest Deal, Stackability, and Selective StackabilityBest Deal (Stackable= False)Stackable (Stackable= True)Selective StackabilityPre-emptive Promotional Prompting Rules – Promo HintsCoupons and Offer Number Qualifiers and ConfigurationCouponsCase Sensitivity - Coupon dataOffer Numbers - (Single or Limited Use Coupons)Case Sensitivity - Offer Number dataGenerate and Download Offer NumbersValidations/Updating Offer Number ConfigurationMix and Match DealsMix and Match Deal SettingsMix and Match Deal Qualifier and Target TemplatesShipping DealsShipping Deal SettingsShipping Deal Qualifier and Target TemplatesFixed Price Kit Promotions - Fixed Price for entire group of qualifying items (a "kit")Fixed Price Kit Deal SettingsFixed Price Kit Deal Qualifier and Target TemplatesPayment DealsPayment Deal SettingsBounceback Coupon DealsAccessing Bounceback coupon dealsCreating Bounceback couponsPromotions Applied to Base Price for Markdown itemsUsing COPY to Create a New DealProfile Purpose This guide outlines the configurations that allow retailers to customize and control the Manhattan Active Omni promotional events feature. Promotional Configurations Important: The Promotional Events feature currently does not support the use of the Quantity key. Use the UI configuration as described in POS Cart/In-Store Purchase POS Configuration, and refer the section on General Cart Configurations for information on removing the quantity key option from the Cart menu. To capture data correctly, all items should be scanned individually  (i.e., quantity 1 for all line items). Manhattan Active Omni features a Promotion Configuration UI, organized as a step-by-step wizard. The intent of this page is to present Promotional Events concepts and configurations to guide the user through the UI screens, fields, and steps. Global Parameters and Deal List Settings Miscellaneous Global Promo Configurations Within the Promotion Global Parameters(New) UI, there is a tab called “Misc. Configuration” with four miscellaneous settings. These settings control the overall promotions engine. Enable Promo Engine: BooleanTrue switch. Only if a retailer does not intend to populate Promotional Pricing, there is a performance benefit to configuring this off (false); otherwise it should always be true. If this is False, and if items are added to the cart, only the items prices are checked. The promo engine is not invoked. Only the itemPrice service is called, regardless of the order modtype configs (see Item Pricing and Promotional Events Process guide). If this is True, and if items are added to the cart, in addition to determining the items prices, the basket is submitted to the Promotions engine and promotional pricing is evaluated. Enable Shipping Promotions: BooleanFalse switch If this is False, shipping and handling component will not call promotion engine to determine if shipping deals are available. If this is True, and if shipping is applied to an order, then shipping component will call promotion engine to determine if a shipping promotion can be applied. Enable Payment Promotions: BooleanFalse If this is set to False, then the system will not check for any payment type associated deals. Include Price Overridden Item: BooleanFalse switch. If this is False, and if user overrides the price on an item in a transaction, the item will not participate in Promotional Deals as either a Target or a Qualifier (see below for definitions of these terms). If this is True, and an item with overridden price does participate in Promotional Deals as both a potential Target and Qualifier, then only the new price is considered. Enable External Offer Number: BooleanFalse switch. If this is False, and the deal requires offer number, 'offer number' deals can only be configured to use offer numbers generated within MAO.  Cannot evaluate the deal with offer numbers generated and validated by an external system. If this is True, and the deal requires offer number, offer numbers need not be generated within MAO promotion engine. 'Offer number' promotion deals can be configured to use either MAO generated offer numbers OR refer to external 3rd party offer numbers. For linking external system offer number. Create a promotion with 'Generate Offer number'=NO and refer external system's "PromoId" to the MAO promo config using "Reference Number for Offer Numbers" Extension work is required to access/use such external offer numbers. Extension document for offer number user exit is in proactive with extensionId: "PricePromo:ExternalOfferNumber:UserExit:GetPromotionInfo". Enable Promotion Timezone: BooleanFalse switch. If this is False, the configured promotions will appear without a timezone on the UI and will saved as UTC by default for both start and end times. EX. Configured start time 1:00 PM and end time 4:59 AM will be be saved literally in the promo config entity and will be interpreted as 1 PM UTC and 4:59 AM UTC In a New York store, the deal will actually start at 8 AM EST and end at 11:59 PM EST, since local time in NY is EST and those times correspond to the configured UST values, and this requires manual conversion to understand when creating/viewing the deal. If this is True, the user can specify timezone for the configured start/end times of a promotion on the UI. When configured, the user will be prompted to select from a drop down list of short codes for all timezones. EX. User may now explicitly configure start time 9:00 AM EST and end time 5:00 PM EST by selecting EST from the time zone list. Note: the data will be normalized on the backend to 2:00 PM UTC and 10:00 PM UTC on the database, but always converted back to the selected time zone for display on the UI. This approach is designed to be easier for the user to manage, since they will be viewing familiar EST (or CST, PST, etc) time zones when configuring deals and events. Deal List Configurations Within the “Deals” panel on the Promotion Configuration UI, deal information is presented in a tabular format with rows and columns. The “row” represents a configured deal. The “column” is information about the deal, so the user does not need to click into the deal to see what is configured. It is possible to configure what columns are shown to the user within the Promotion Deal List Configuration UI. Configurations are set up under [Application Configuration > Manage Selling Configuration > Selling > Promotion Deal List Configuration]. The following information is required to add additional attributes to the Deals List UI: Attribute Config ID: attribute of the deal along with the data type. EX: PromoDesc Attribute Label: attribute name what will be displayed on the Promotion Configuration UI. EX: Deal Description Show Attribute: determines if the attribute is shown or hidden by default. EX: When set to true, user will see this new attribute on the deal list screen. When set to false, the attribute will only be available within the Column dropdown to be added manually by the logged in user. Display Sequence: determines the column display order on the deal list UI Attribute Width: determines the width of the column to be displayed on the deal list UI Note: If no configuration is set, or if no seed data exists, users will automatically see the following 5 default/fallback attribute columns: Deal code, Deal description, Tags, Start DTTM and End DTTM Once the deal attributes are configured, users will see these by default when navigating to [Promotion Configuration > Deals] list tab. Users will have the ability to manually manipulate these configurations thru the following actions: Any attribute which is set by default will be automatically selected in the ‘Columns’ dropdown Users can deselect any of these attributes to remove the column from the list If user deselects all attributes, the system will default to the five base configured attributes Users can select any additional available attribute to display As additional attributes are selected, the screen will become horizontally scrollable Users can drag and drop columns into any display order they prefer, as well as expand/collapse column width as desired If the retailer wants to add a nested attribute or extendedAttributes as column, it can be configured by providing the JSON path to the attribute as AttributeNameId. If user clears their browser cache, these configurations will go back to the default set by the retailer. Deal List Filters Users have the ability to filter the Deals list screen in Promotion Configuration UI. Users can filter Deals using the ‘Deal Type’ drop-down list and the ‘Filter’ drop-down list. The ‘Filter’ drop-down contains filters configurable by backend metadata and the filters will be grouped into categories such as: Date Range, Deal Status, Other Filter, etc. These filters may be single or multi-selectable. Once a user selects filters, and presses ‘Apply’, the UI will refresh to show only the filtered data, and the filters will appear as removable pills on the UI. Users can remove the pills and data will refresh automatically, or they can deselect from the filter dropdown and press ‘Apply’. Deal Type: Toggle between Deal types such as: Combo Order, Combo Item, Single Item, Combo Shipping, and Bounceback Coupon Filter > Date Range: Based on effective start date and effective end date EffectiveStartDate >= {0} EffectiveEndDate <= {0} If a user selects a deal status, any custom date range entered in will be automatically cleared from the UI. Filter > Deal Status: Deal status group is to filter deals based on dynamic query on start and end date Active: EffectiveStartDate <= {0} and EffectiveEndDate > {1} Expired: EffectiveEndDate < {0} Future: EffectiveEndDate < {0} Deal status is single select only. If a user enters a custom date range, the UI will automatically deselect any selected deal status. Filter > Other Filters: The other filter group is to filter deals based on deal attributes and can be single or multi-select values Ex: Coupon Required is single select, as it is a boolean attribute EX: Tags is multi-select as there can be multiple tags in effect at any given time. Only those tags which are configured will appear in the filter list. The search field within the Promotion Configuration Deals list screen will search across all configured columns/attributes within the same Deal Type. Note: The search field does not consider if a Filter is applied or not. All matching Deals within the same Deal Type (regardless of Filter) will show. Promotion Configurator The Promotion Configurator allows you to create and manage individual Deals, Events, Location Groups, and Tags. Promotional Deals A Deal is an automatic discount which is applied to one or more items in an order during the transaction. The term 'deal' encompasses not only the discount action itself but the collection of child data which governs the application and targets of the discount. Deals are associated with start/end date-times. There are 5 types of deals: Combo Item Promo - A deal for which the target items and/or qualifier items are specific. Example: Buy 2 Men's Spring Shirts get 1 Men's Tie free. Single Item Promo - A special case Item Deal for which the target items and qualifier items are the same, and are specified by a specific ItemId. Example: Buy specific Item 123456 and receive for 10% off the same item. Combo Order Promo - A deal for which neither the qualifier items nor target items are specific. Example: Spend 100.00 on any item(s), get 10.00 off the transaction. Combo Shipping Promo - A deal which applies to the shipping fee associated to a Shipping Fulfillment Group within a transaction. Bounceback Coupon - A deal which issues a coupon or offer number based on item/transaction qualification. This issued coupon or offer number can be used by customer in future transactions for redemption. Note: Shipping promotions apply to the shipping which is charged and are not applied to individual items or orders. Note: The Single Item Promo deal can be created either via Combo Item configurator or Single Item configurator, but the Single Item schema has performance advantages for this type of deal. Deal Header Attributes Deal Code: It is the primary business key to define the Deal record(s) in the schema and is not printed or displayed at POS. Deal Description: For internal or reporting use. It is not printed on receipts or displayed on the Cart screen except on the View Coupons pop-up. Short Description: This is the description that is printed on receipts and displayed on the Cart screen at POS; hence has a max length of 25 characters. Apply Tags: The ability to apply a tag to the deal. See  Best Deal, Stackability, and Selective Stackability section for more information on Tags Stackable: If set to “Yes”, then the deal is stackable and a stack sequence can be provided If set to “No”, then the deal is not stackable See  Best Deal, Stackability, and Selective Stackability section for more details Apply to: Choices are Full Price Items Only,  Sale Price Items Only, or All Items Full Price Items Only: If set, then ONLY Full Price items participate in this deal as both potential Targets and Qualifiers (see below for definitions), and only the Selling price of the item is used See the Item Pricing and Promotional Events Process guide for the definition of a sale item Sale Price Items Only: If set , then ONLY  Sale Items (items on Sale price) participate in this deal as both potential Targets and Qualifiers (see below for definitions), and only the Sale (Selling) price of the item is used See the Item Pricing and Promotional Events Process guide for the definition of a sale item All Items: If set, then BOTH Full Priced Items AND Sale Items (items on Sale price) participate in this deal as both potential Targets and Qualifiers (see below for definitions) See the Item Pricing and Promotional Events Process guide for the definition of a sale item Coupon Required: True/False flag to determine if a coupon code is required for any deal in which a coupon is a trigger for a deal If a coupon is required, then a “Coupon Code” is required be configured. The coupon code cannot be duplicated across multiple deals See Coupons and Offer Numbers Configuration section for more details Coupon Use Drives Promo: True/False flag to determine if the number of deals cannot exceed the actual coupon use.  If TRUE the deal applies no more than the number of coupons used Ex. Assume this is FALSE.  Customer presents 1 coupon for 50% off 1 pair of socks. If they buy 6 pairs, the single coupon gives them 50% off each of the 6.  The coupon use (1) triggered but did not limit (drive) the promo (6). Ex. Assume this is TRUE.  Customer presents 1 coupon for 50% off 1 pair of socks. If they buy 6 pairs, the single coupon gives them 50% off only 1 of the 6 pairs.  The coupon use (1) triggered AND limited (drove) the promo (also only 1). This appears in the UI only if “Coupon Required” = true See Coupons and Offer Numbers Configuration section for more details Offer Number Required: True/False flag to determine if an offer numbers is required to trigger the deal Generate Offer Number flag: If this is true, then it is possible to have the system generate a specific amount of offer numbers If this is false, MAO will not generate offer numbers.  Instead Reference Number for Offer Numbers field gets enabled. This is used to enter the reference number that ties an external system's offer deal and MAO's.  Integration with an external system is required to process such offer numbers. See Coupons and Offer Numbers Configuration section for more details Note: Shipping promotions cannot be stacked, and the "Include Sale Items" switch is not relevant for them. Therefore, these fields are not enabled when configuring a shipping promotion deal. Note: Only “Coupon Required” or “Offer Number Required” can be set to true in a deal configuration. Note: Apply to options are only applicable for Item deals. Deal Detail Concepts and Settings Qualifier Inclusions A trigger condition for a Deal. The qualifier could be an order attribute such as SellingChannel, active customer attribute such as Customer Type (taken from our customer 'loyalty' status attribute, example: Silver, Gold), employee attribute such as job class (gets populated in case order is created for an employee), the order subtotal, or an item attribute such as items within certain department and class. Qualifiers can be associated with amounts and quantities - for example, a deal applies if subtotal exceeds $100.00, or if 3 items from Women's Department are purchased. Shipping methods may also be used as Qualifiers, to target a Shipping Deal to a single Shipping Method. A Payment Type may also be used as Qualifier. Target Inclusions The items that receive the Deal discount. Targets could be non-specific such as "entire transaction" or limited to items with a specific attribute such as "Product class Shirts <AND> Color Blue". Targets can be associated with a quantity as well. Benefit The amount of the Deal discount that is applied and the application method. For example, a benefit could be 5% off, $5.00 off, or special price of $5.00. Qualifier and Target Exclusions Certain items may be excluded from a general Qualifier and/or Target rule. Note: Order line tag details can also be used to filter the basket lines before evaluation.  This is applicable to Qualifier and Target Inclusions and Exclusions.  These can be configured via the API, not through Promotion configuration UI. Promotions inclusion and exclusion rules can be created using extended attributes for item and customer types. Currently, extended attributes are not supported for payment or employee. Defining a qualifier/target inclusion and exclusion rule - using AND vs OR If a qualifier or target has more than one item attribute condition, then users can choose a condition to be AND/OR between these item attributes. By default, the condition is an "AND" between the item attributes, but the user can choose to have an "OR" condition. For example: You can define a promo, get 10% off with qualifiers as  [(Color = Black or Blue (OR) Season = Winter) AND Product Class = Swimwear). This promo will be applicable to any of the qualifying combinations below. Color = Black + Product class = Swimwear Color = Blue + Product class = Swimwear Season = Winter + Product class = Swimwear First the OR condition will be evaluated in the qualifying conditions, and then it will evaluate the AND condition. This is only applicable to Item Attributes. We cannot use "OR" condition for Order, Customer, Employee attributes This change is enabled by change in behavior "Promo - Support large volume, cross category" Examples of deals illustrating these concepts: Deal Plain English Deal Type Qualifying Inclusion Qualifying Min Quantity Qualifying Amount Qualifying Exclusion Target Inclusion Target Min Quantity Target Max Quantity Benefit 1001 Buy 3 Women's Tops not including Item PR0011 get 1 Women's Slack 50% off Combo Item Store Department Women's AND Product Class Tops 3 NA ItemId PR0011 Store Department Women's AND Product Class Slacks NA 1 Percentage 50% off 1002 Buy 3 Women's Tops  get up to 2 more Women's Tops 50% off.  After qualifiers are purchased, the deal will apply with the first Target top purchased, up to two targets. Combo Item Store Department Women's AND Product Class Tops 3 NA NA Store Department Women's AND Product Class Tops 1 2 Percentage 50% off 1003 Buy 3 Men's Tops get 50% off only when 2 more Mens Tops are purchased - because min target amount is 2, after qualifiers are purchased, the deal will NOT apply until both (2) target items are purchased. Combo Item Store Department Men's AND Product Class Tops 3 NA NA Store Department Men's AND Product Class Tops 2 2 Percentage 50% off Watch_sale2 Buy a 50.00 Watch PR0050 for 45.00 Single Item ItemId PR0050 1 NA NA NA NA 1 Special Price $45.00 303 Spend 100.00 get 5.00 off entire transaction Combo Order Any item (nonspecific) NA 100 NA NA NA Entire Transaction Fixed Discount $5.00 Importing large numbers of Inclusions/Exclusions The general navigation of the Promotional Config UI supports highlighting choices from a list and selecting “INCLUDE”, or, individually typing entries. For example, a user can select ‘Women’ and ‘Children’ from scrollable list of Store Departments and the configuration will "include" both as a target. A user can type in SKU ‘PR0050’ to "exclude" that specific ItemId as a target. If the retailer wishes to create a deal with hundreds or thousands of inclusions/exclusions, the above approach is not practical. To mass create inclusions/exclusions, the following methods are available: Use an external application to directly import via API Alternatively, on the config UI, the user may select the “IMPORT ITEM ATTRIBUTES” button which will produce a text editor popup. Hundreds or thousands of comma-delimited attributes can be added to the popup by cut/paste and saved with the deal. Show only “IMPORT ITEM ATTRIBUTES” button when dealing with more than 1000 item attributes is enabled by change in behavior "Promo - Support large volume, cross category". Note: The dropdown lists on the Promotional Config UI support up to 1000 unique values.  If inclusions/exclusions for a deal involve more than this, the API import, or, IMPORT ITEM ATTRIBUTES text editor, must be used instead of selecting from dropdown and the config UI will not build or show the dropdown list. Limitation: When styles are imported into the exclusion criteria from the text editor, the UI does not separate the styles with commas. How To Create Exclusions/Inclusions With Special Characters Item values in the CSV files are separated by commas. However, some item values can have commas or special characters in the values itself. The UI can differentiate between values separated by commas and values that have commas in them. In CSV files, this is identified by having the value (which has a comma in the name ) included in double quotes. For example, if the item values are WIN001,WIN002 and "WINTER,WHITE JACKET", then the CSV file would be - WIN001,WIN002,"WINTER,WHITE JACKET". This should be read as three values by the UI - WIN001 WIN002 WINTER,WHITE JACKET Tip: To ensure correct parsing, please make sure that all input values are enclosed in quotes Parsed Output When correctly parsed, this will result in: WIN001 WIN002 Hot Chocolate, Large Winter Jacket, Men's Snow Boots, Women's Qualifier and Target Templates and Benefit Proration Selecting a pattern for a deal allows the Promotional Config UI to behave as a wizard and guide the user to a logically filtered subset of configuration choices. The content of the screen is determined by the promoConfigTemplate entities. Qualifier Templates Q1 Buy N of X - buy a specified quantity of a specific type of item Q2 Spend A on X - spend more than a threshold on a specific type of item Q3 Buy Anything - by a specified quantity of anything Q4 Spend A - spend more than a threshold on anything Q5 Any X more than A - buy at least one of a specific type of item for more than a specified price Target Templates T1 Get M of X - a specified quantity of the same type of item as the qualifier is given the discount T2 Get M of Y - a specified quantity of a different type of item than the qualifier is given the discount T3 Get Entire Transaction - the entire transaction is given the discount T4 Get Remaining Transaction - the entire transaction except the qualifier portion is given the discount T5 Get Entire X - all the same type of items as the qualifier, including the qualifiers themselves, are given the discount T6 Get Remaining X - all the same type of items as the qualifier, excluding the qualifier(s) themselves, are given the discount T7 Get Entire Y - all the different type of items other than the qualifier is given the discount T8 Get Shipping - deal will apply to the Shipping Charge associated to a Shipping Fulfillment Group T9 Get Qualified X - deal will apply to the items meeting all qualifier configurations (This template will only be available when multiple qualifier templates have been configured) T10 Get Qualified X for Fixed Price - Only the eligible qualifiers are given at fixed price. (This template will only be available when Q1 or mix and match multiple of Q1 qualifier has been configured) Benefit Templates B1 Free - a benefit equivalent to the full price of the target item, or sum of target item prices, is assigned. (Depending on the benefit proration strategy, this may/may not result in individual item final prices of 0.00). B2 % Off - a benefit equivalent to a percentage of the target item, or sum of target item prices, is assigned. B3 $ Off (spread) - a benefit equivalent to a fixed dollar amount off is spread over the target item(s) B4 Fixed Price - target items sell for a specific price B5 $ Off (unit) - a benefit equivalent to a fixed dollar amount off is applied to each target item B6 Fixed Price (Spread) - A fixed cost is spread across all target items. B7 Issue a Coupon - A configured coupon code or offer number is issued per transaction by printing on the receipt that's provided to the customer Benefit Proration Flags Where appropriate, when the patterns above are selected the user may configure the deal to Prorate, and further to configure how to handle Proration over multiple redemptions. 1. Prorate Across Qualifier and Target (T/F) Example 1: Buy 2 shirts, get 1 free - User buys 3 shirts priced at 10.00. If Prorate is False, the shirts are priced at 10.00, 10.00, and 0.00. If Prorate is True, the 10.00 benefit of the 'free' 3rd shirt is prorated over all three shirts. Prices will be 8.33, 8.33, and 8.34. Example 2: Buy 2 shirts, get 1 50% off - User buys a 15.00 shirt, a 20.00 shirt, a 25.00 shirt, and a 30.00 shirt. By default, in a situation such as this, the promotional engine uses the most expensive item as Qualifier and then assigns the benefit to the Target choice which gives the best deal. In this case, the 30.00 shirt and the 25.00 shirt will be qualifiers, the 20.00 shirt will receive 50% off for a 10.00 benefit, and the 15.00 shirt will not participate. If Prorate is False, the shirts are priced at 30.00, 25.00, and 10.00 (50% off 20) and 15.00. Total benefit is 10.00. If Prorate is True, the 10.00 benefit of the 20.00 shirt discount is prorated (spread proportionally) over the 20.00 target and the 25.00 and 30.00 qualifiers. Prices will be 20.00 shirt for 17.33, 25.00 shirt for 21.67, 30.00 shirt for 26.00, and the 15.00 shirt for 15.00. Total benefit is still 10.00 but spread proportionally over the two qualifiers and the target. 2. Prorate Across Qualifier and Target (T) and Prorate Per Redemption (T/F) NOTE Prorate Per Redemption flag is not relevant and has no effect unless Prorate Across Qualifer and Target is True.  Additionally, the 'per redemption' flag is only meaningful if there are more than one instances of the same deal within the same order (more than one 'redemption'). Example 1: Buy 2 shirts, get 1 free - User buys 6 shirts priced at 10.00.  There will be two instances (redemptions) of the deal within the transaction. Regardless of whether Prorate Per Redemption (T/F) is False, the shirts are priced at four for 8.33, 8.33, and two for 8.34. This is a trivial example.  (Prorate per redemption over two redemptions makes no difference in this case, whether true or false.) Example 2: Buy 2 shirts, get 1 50% off - User buys two 15.00 shirts, two 20.00 shirts, two 25.00 shirts, and two 30.00 shirt. As before, by default, in a situation such as this, the promotional engine uses the most expensive item as Qualifier and then assigns the benefit to the Target choice which gives the best deal. In this case, REDEMPTION 1 The two 30.00 shirts will qualify one 25.00 shirt as target. 12.50 will be the 50% benefit amount REDEMPTION 2 The second 25.00 shirt and one 20.00 shirt will qualify the second 20.00 shirt as target.  10.00 off will be the 50% benefit amount. The two 15.00 shirt will not participate. If Prorate Per Redemption is False, the two benefit amounts 12.50+10.00 = 22.50 will prorate over ALL six players in the deal. Color coding indicates to which specific redemption each item belongs. SHIRT ITEM ORIGINAL AFTER DEAL SHIRT 30 30.00 25.50 SHIRT 30 30.00 25.50 SHIRT 25 25.00 21.25 SHIRT 25 25.00 21.25 SHIRT 20 20.00 17.00 SHIRT 20 20.00 17.00 discounts over all 6 total 22.50 SHIRT 15 15.00 15.00 (no deal) SHIRT 15 15.00 15.00 (no deal) If Prorate Per Redemption is True, the two benefit amounts 12.50+10.00 = 22.50 will prorate separately over each instance (redemption).  3 items will share 12.50 and 3 items will share 10.00. Color coding indicates to which specific redemption each item belongs. SHIRT ITEM ORIGINAL AFTER DEAL SHIRT 30 30.00 25.59 SHIRT 30 30.00 25.59 SHIRT 25 25.00 21.32 discounts over these 3 total 12.50 SHIRT 25 25.00 21.25 SHIRT 20 20.00 16.93 SHIRT 20 20.00 16.92 discounts over these 3 total 10.00 SHIRT 15 15.00 15.00 (no deal) SHIRT 15 15.00 15.00 (no deal) Promotional Events and Location Groups These are optional entities that may be created and associated to Deals, by which Deals may be grouped either for convenience or to filter the deal application to subset of locations within the Org. Promotional Event This entity is a description associated to start/end date-time attributes. Deals can be created independently without associating to an Event, but each Deal may be associated to a single Event. Multiple deals may share the same Event. Each Deal associated to an Event inherits the start/end date-time from the Event. The start/end date-time of each Deal may be overridden but the new value must fall within the larger bounds of the Event start/end date-times. Basically, an Event serves as a convenient 'container' to reference multiple deals. Example: Promotional Event BTS2018 Description: Back to School 2018 Start Date-time 08/01/2018 00:00:00 AM, End Date-time 09/10/2018 00:00:00 AM These 4 deals could share this event - Deal BTS001 - Get 10% off on children's shoes (Start/End date-time 08/01/2018 00:00:00 AM to 08/15/2018 05:00:00 PM. Note that the end date-time of the Event has been overridden but is within the larger Event range). Deal BTS002 - Buy 1 skinny jeans get 1 25% off (Start/End date-time same as Event.) Deal 12345 - Buy t-shirt SKU 1234 for $9.99 (Start/End date-time same as Event.) Deal 678910 - Buy any 10 items get $5.00 off transaction (Start/End date-time same as Event.) Note: When creating event name, spaces and special characters are not supported. Location Group This entity is a collection of locations, with a description. Deals can be created independently without associating to a Location Group, but each Deal may be associated to a single Location Group. Multiple deals may share the same Group. If a Deal is created independently (no Group), it will be active at all locations within the Org. If a Deal is associated to a Location Group, it will be active only at locations within the Group and will not take effect at locations outside the Group. Example: Location Group Northeast Stores These stores are present in this Group: Store 1001, 1002, 1003. Deal BTS001 (from above) is associated to Northeast_Stores location group. Children's shoes are sold in store 1002 - Result: BTS001 10% off Deal may be applied (this deal is active at this store since it's associated to Northeast_Stores which contains that location). Children's shoes are sold in store 1004 - Result: BTS001 will not be applied, since this location is not present in the Location Group Northeast_Stores. Best Deal, Stackability, and Selective Stackability These concepts control the situation when the same item is eligible for multiple Deals. Best Deal (Stackable= False) This is the default logic for competing deals within the same Dealtype Group (ex competing ITEM deals, competing ORDER deals, competing SHIPPING deals). Item Deals are analyzed first and the deal(s) applied which produce the optimal lowest subtotal for the customer. Following the result of this analysis, Order deals are applied on the result. I.E., if an item is eligible for two or more Item Deals, and if two or more active Order Deals are also available, normally the better (best) Item Deal will be applied, followed by the best Order Deal. Example - these 5 deals below are all active today in each location: Deal Deal type Deal Group Plain English Item_1 ComboItem Item 10% off red shirt Item_2 SingleItem Item $5.00 off on each shirt Item_3 ComboItem Item 40% off on blue shirt Order_1 ComboOrder Order Spend $100.00 get $5.00 Off Order_2 ComboOrder Order Purchase any 3 items get 20% off Example transaction - A shirt for $20.00. User buy 7 red and 2 blue shirts today at this location. Normally, the subtotal would be $180.00. Result - Items in this transaction is eligible for all order promotions and selective Item promotions based on qualifying conditions, but only the 'best deals' will apply based on qualifying conditions: Item Deal: Item_2 will apply to all 7 red shirts since $5.00 off each shirt is a better deal than 10% ($2.00) off each shirt. Item Deal: Item_3 will apply for all 2 blue shirts since 10% ($8.00) off each shirt is a better deal than $5.00 off each shirt. Following this, the transaction subtotal for the 9 items will be $129.00. Order Deal: Order_2 will apply since 20% off of $129.00 is a better deal than $5.00 off. Final net transaction subtotal will be $103.20 after both Item and Order deals are applied. Stackable (Stackable= True) A deal configured as 'stackable' will be set aside from the above 'best deal' analysis until all deals within its dealtype group (item or order) have been evaluated, then applied ("stacked") on the result. Deals which are configured as 'Stackable' are assigned a sequence. In the event of multiple 'stackable' deals they are applied in ascending sequence number. Example - Take the previous example. Assume two additional deals are present as shown: Deal Deal type Deal Group Plain English Stackable Sequence Item_1 ComboItem Item 10% off any Shirt N Item_2 SingleItem Item Shirt SKU 123 for $5.00 off N Order_1 ComboOrder Order Spend $100.00 get $5.00 off N Order_2 ComboOrder Order Purchase any 3 items get 20% off N Order_3 ComboOrder Order Spend $75.00 get $2.00 off Y 1 Order_4 ComboOrder Order Purchase any 6 items get 5% off Y 2 Example Transaction - SKU 123 is a shirt for price $20.00. User buys 7 of them today at this location. Normally the subtotal would be $140.00. (The same as before). NEW result - Initially, Item_2 and Order_2 will apply, same as before, for subtotal of $84.00. Order_3 and Order_4 will not 'compete' since they are Stackable. Order_3 will then be applied bringing subtotal to $82.00. Note this deal is applied first as its sequence is 1. Order_4 will be applied bringing the final subtotal to $77.90. Selective Stackability With selective stackability, users can configure deals to be combined only 'selectively'. With usual Best Deal logic, this is not relevant since two different deals will inherently NOT apply to the same item, but this becomes a factor for Stackable deals. Exclusion lists of other deals can be established, so that a given deal will never apply if another 'excluded' deal is present. Rather than deal-by-deal selectivity, deals can be grouped via Tags, and a given Tag can be configured as excluded from deals with another Tag. Example: Tags and Selective Stackability Extending from previous example, the non-stackable deals for item and order are associated with different tags and both the stackable deals are also associated with same tag - getExtraTag. Deal Deal type Deal Group Plain English Stackable Sequence Tags Item_1 ComboItem Item 10% off any Shirt N Item_2 SingleItem Item Shirt SKU 123 for $5.00 off N 5OffOnSKU123Tag Order_1 ComboOrder Order Spend $100.00 get $5.00 off N Order_2 ComboOrder Order Purchase any 3 items get 20% off N 20OffonOrderTag Order_3 ComboOrder Order Spend $75.00 get $2.00 off Y 1 getExtraTag Order_4 ComboOrder Order Purchase any 6 items get 5% off Y 2 getExtraTag Example: Below are the 3 tags associated with 4 deals above, and all 3 tags are defined an exclusion list. To illustrate, consider just Item_2 deal, its tag, and its tag exclusion list.  According to this, Item_2 deal will never apply if Order_3 or Order_4 are present, since their shared tags are excluded from the tag for Item_2 deal. Tag Name Simple English Tag Exclusions list 5OffOnSKU123Tag Tag to represent item deal with $5 off on SKU 123 getExtraTag 20OffonOrderTag Tag to represent order deal with 20 % off getExtraTag getExtraTag Tag to represent get extra percent off which are ideally stackable deals on spending some amount or purchasing specific items 20OffonOrderTag, 20OffonOrderTag Example Transaction - SKU 123 is a shirt for price $20.00. User buys 7 of them today at this location. Normally the subtotal would be $140.00. (The same as before). NEW result - Initially, Item_2 and Order_2 will apply, same as before, for subtotal of $84.00. Order_3 and Order_4 will not 'compete' since they are Stackable. Ideally Order_3 should applied. But since the Order_3 which is associated to tag "getExtraTag" is in the exclusion list of tag "5OffOnSKU123Tag" and associated to Item_2 deal. Since Item_2 is already applied, Order_3 will be skipped or excluded from getting applied. Ideally Order_4 should also be applied. But since the Order_4 which is also associated to tag "getExtraTag" is in the exclusion list of tag "20OffonOrderTag" and associated to Order_2 deal. Since Order_2 is already applied, Order_4 will be skipped or excluded from getting applied. Final order subtotal will remain same $84.00 after both order_3 and Order_4 are excluded. Pre-emptive Promotional Prompting Rules – Promo Hints Promotional deals are applied when configured qualifying conditions are met, as per above.  In addition to this functionality, the promotional events feature allows the retailer to configure prompting rules that can 'hint' for a promo deal for which some qualifiers are present but that has not been triggered yet. The pre-emptive prompting rules have independent triggers to the actual deal qualifier, but logically they should be related. For example, a deal may require the customer to purchase 3 items. The preemptive 'hint' can be configured to display after 1 or more items are scanned. The 'hint' will appear after the scan of 1 item, 2 items, and after the 3rd item, the deal itself will be triggered. Since the cart meets the requirements of the deal, which the 'hints' would no longer appear. In this example, it would make no sense to configure the prompting to be triggered by scanning 4 quantities of Item A, or any number of some other Item B When the prompting rule is triggered, the prompt appears with the informational text and the image on the POS application. Every deal eligible to be suggested gets displayed separately. Hence, a transaction can have more than one suggestion, if the cart is eligible. Follow these steps to configure a prompting rule: Within the Promotion Configuration UI, click thru to the ‘Prompting Rules’ tab Enable prompting by setting ‘Prompt User’ = true Input the qualifying criteria Provide a prompt text, image URL, and selling channel. It is possible to configure different prompt text and image URLs by selling channel as long as they are part of the deal. Note: The prompt qualifier type is derived from the Qualifier used in the ‘Template’ tab. Example: Qualifier=Q1 Buy N of X, the prompt qualifier will be defined as ‘Min Qualifying Units’. Coupons and Offer Number Qualifiers and Configuration Coupons Coupons can be used in conjunction with item attributes and order attributes as qualifiers for deals. There are currently three configurations that can be set for coupon use in an order. Promotion configuration: Coupon Max Redemptions: The number of times a coupon can be used in a single transaction Coupon Use Drives Promo: Deal applies no more than the number of coupons used False: Entering a coupon one-time can trigger multiple applications of the deal associated to that coupon. For combo deal, this will be limited only by the maxRedemptions setting. True: If a specific coupon is entered X times into a transaction, the associated deal cannot be applied more than X times. X is dynamically determined transactionally by the number of times per transaction the coupon is added. Store configuration: Show applied coupons: True: All applied coupons will be shown when user presses Checkout button False: Only unapplied coupons that need to be returned to the customer will be shown when user presses Checkout button Case Sensitivity - Coupon data Coupons are case sensitive.  COUPON001 is understood as a diifferent coupon from Coupon001 which is different from CouPon001.  Please keep this in mind when configuring the coupon for a deal. Offer Numbers - (Single or Limited Use Coupons) While very similar to a Coupon code, Offer Numbers are designed to be unique and created in large quantities. One deal can be associated to an array of thousands of unique Offer Numbers, and the retailer can configure a lifetime redemption limit (i.e., can't be used more than once) for the Offer Numbers in any given deal. (They are often called 'single use' or 'one-time use' but can be configured to be used more than once.) Within the Promotion Global Parameters(New) UI [Applicable Configuration > Manage Selling Configuration > Selling > Promotions Global Parameters(New)], use tab “Offer Number Configuration” to configure the offer number pattern.  This setting apply to Offer Numbers which are generated within MAO (not external Offer Numbers). Offer Number Configuration (Single Use Coupon Pattern) Enter the length of the offer number. Length of the offer number can be between 8 to 99. Enter the patterns in each position, below are the valid pattern for all open positions. Note: the angular brackets are mandatory. <nA> which means position can be either number or upper-case alphabet. <n> which means position can be only number. <A> which means position can be only have upper case alphabet. User can also choose to enter static patterns. For example, the first position could be configured to support specifically the digit 9, or the letter A. To do this you need to enter data (number or alphabets) without the angular brackets. User can choose any number between 0-9, or any upper alphabets (A-Z) but ensure it should be either a specific number or character, without brackets. Note: Although this is not expected to be a common requirement, theoretically the 'static pattern' character could be a special character such as punctuation (!,.:?") or other (~@#<>-^|*). In the (unlikely) event that it should be required to embed a static special character in a certain position of each offer number, retailer must ensure that this is supported by the bar code symbology they may be using and obviously should avoid introducing potentially dangerous control characters into bar codes which will be scanned into the application. User can also choose the starting position of the constant per deal, which is a four position in length. It can start from any place across the length of the offer number, but it cannot take the last 3 positions. (For example: if the length of the offer number =15, the start position of the constant can be any position but not 13, 14 or 15. Default Offer Number Config: By default, the below configuration will be loaded on the UI, if already the offer number configuration is not set by the user for the logged in organization. Length = 15 Start Position of Constant = 5 (this comes to 5,6,7,8) Static value at position 1 = M Rest of the positions containing <nA> Maximum Offer number Calculation on UI: "Maximum Offer number that can be generated" is calculated on the fly based on user entry. This value will change when user enter length and/or changes pattern in any of the position. Things to note: n = numbers, value=10 A = Upper case alphabets, count=26 If the configuration is default as explained above in "Default offer number config" section, then the maximum offer number that can be generated, can be calculated as below: <nA> is at position (2,3,4,9 till 15) which means 10 times. So, 10+26 = 36. So, calculation is 36*36*36*36*36*36*36*36*36*36 which is  approx 3656158440062976 (3.65616E+15). Case Sensitivity - Offer Number data Offer numbers can only be configured with upper case letters. Generate and Download Offer Numbers Generate offer numbers: It is possible to generate offer numbers when creating any type of deal (combo order, combo item, single item or shipping deal). Follow the below steps to generate offer number as part of the deal: Give all the generic attributes required for the deal Turn Offer number required = TRUE Turn Generate offer number = TRUE Enter the "Number of offer number" that user wants to generate for this deal (This number should be less than the max allowed as per the configuration) Enter the "Offer Number lifetime Max Redemption" (This is how many times the offer number can be used within or across transactions in its lifetime) Once all the above attributes are entered, configure rest of the mandatory fields required to create a deal and click on finish. During the deal creation, the offer number will be generated for this deal in batches and will be stored to the elastic/search component. Download offer numbers: All the deals created with offer number required = TRUE and generate offer number = TRUE are eligible to download the offer number to the local system based on the offer number batch status. If the batch status is completed or partially completed are eligible to download the offer number. To download the offer numbers, follow below steps: Select a deal for which the offer number needs to be downloaded (and which matches the above criteria) Edit the deal and go to edit mode. Click the green download icon next to the "Generation status". Upon clicking, a zip file will be downloaded to the local repository Go to the downloads folder and unzip the file. Go to the unzipped folder and find that there will be several files present based on the number of offer numbers generated as part of this deal. Each file will contain potentially thousands of offer numbers, depending on how many were requested via Number of Offer Number. Open the file to access the offer number and use it to create barcodes or use it directly and share with customers These offer number can be used during the period the deal is active. Validations/Updating Offer Number Configuration Once the Offer Number pattern is created and one or more deals are configured to use it, MAO does not allow any changes to the offer number configuration. This is due to offer numbers being present on the elastic/search component. The configuration is now considered ‘frozen’ for that org/retailer. If there is a need to change the offer number configuration, then some manual steps are required. It is not anticipated that this will be a likely occurrence in a production environment but may occur during testing and during initial implementation. Mix and Match Deals Mix and match deals are configured to require more than one item qualifier inclusions within a single deal, as well as apply the deal only to the qualifying units. For example, in order to receive the benefit, the customer must purchase 1 pair of shoes AND 2 pairs of socks. Mix and Match Deal Settings Qualifier Inclusions - When multiple qualifiers are configured, the user must set inclusion rules for all qualifier items in addition to the Order inclusions. Target Inclusions - The items that receive the Deal discount. In the case of mix and match deals, the target can be the qualifier items or a different item. Benefit - The amount of the Deal discount that is applied and the application method. Mix and Match Deal Qualifier and Target Templates Qualifier Templates Q1 Buy N of X - buy a specified quantity of a specific type of item Q2 Spend A on X - spend more than a threshold on a specific type of item Q5 Any X more than A - buy at least one of a specific type of item for more than a specified price Minimum Inclusions - When setting up the new deal qualifier rules, there are two required inclusions. If either is not set, the user will not be allowed to proceed. Selling Channel Item qualifiers. For each qualifier, there might be an inclusion rule. Target Templates Target Templates will be an intersection of those available for all configured qualifier templates. For example, if Q1 and Q2 are used are qualifier templates, only the shared target templates will be available for selection. Key target templates for mix and match deals are T9 and T10, but others can be used as well as needed. Benefit Templates Benefit Templates will be an intersection of those available for all configured target templates. A key benefit template for mix and match deals is B6, but others can be used as well as needed. Note: There is no limit to the number of qualifiers that can be added for a mix and match deal. Note: Combo item deal with two qualifiers have been created, promotion was not applied on adding items to cart. Logs are now attached where the Promo engine is excluding MM2 promotion. Ex. Combo item deal with two qualifiers and free item as the benefit. Add all items to the cart, and promotion is automatically applied. Important: Prompting rules cannot be set for a mix and match promotion Shipping Deals Shipping Deal Settings Qualifier Inclusions - A trigger condition for a Shipping Deal. Qualifiers may include the following order attributes: Selling Channel, Customer, Employee Target Inclusions - The items that receive the Deal discount. In the case of shipping promotions, the only target can be shipping. Benefit - The amount of the Deal discount that is applied and the application method. Shipping Deal Qualifier and Target Templates Qualifier Templates Q3 Buy Anything - by a specified quantity of anything Q4 Spend A - spend more than a threshold on anything Minimum Inclusions - When setting up the new deal qualifier rules, there are two required inclusions. If either is not set, the user will not be allowed to proceed. Selling Channel Shipping Method Target Templates T8 Get Shipping - shipping charges will receive the applied deal Benefit Templates B1 Free - a benefit equivalent to the full price of the target item, or sum of target item prices, is assigned. (Depending on the benefit proration strategy, this may/may not result in individual item final prices of 0.00). B2 % Off - a benefit equivalent to a percentage of the target item, or sum of target item prices, is assigned. B4 Fixed Price - target items sell for a specific price B5 $ Off (unit) - a benefit equivalent to a fixed dollar amount off is applied to each target item Fixed Price Kit Promotions - Fixed Price for entire group of qualifying items (a "kit") This is the type of deal in which the Qualifier is a group of items and the Benefit is to assign a price to the entire group ("kit"). The qualifier could be a mix and match combination, or it could be a simple qualifier with quantity greater than one. A fixed price kit deal is only applicable for a non-stackable combo item deals. A couple examples of fixed price kit deals are: Buy 4 shirts for a price of 199.00. Buy 1 jacket, 1 pant, and 1 shirt for 250.00. This represents 1 “suit” price. Fixed Price Kit Deal Settings Qualifier Inclusions - When one or more qualifiers are configured, the user must set inclusion rules for all qualifier items in addition to the Order inclusions. For example, “Buy 1 pair slacks and 1 jacket”, there are two N of X qualifiers: Slacks where N = 1 and Jackets where N = 1 Target Inclusions - The items that receive the Deal discount. In the case of fixed price kit promotions, the target is the qualifier items. Benefit - The amount of the Deal discount that is applied and the application method. Fixed Price Kit Deal Qualifier and Target Templates Qualifier Templates Q1 Buy N of X - buy a specified quantity of a specific type of item Minimum Inclusions - When setting up the new deal qualifier rules, there are two required inclusions. If either is not set, the user will not be allowed to proceed. Selling Channel Item qualifiers. For each qualifier, there might be an inclusion rule. Target Templates T10 Get Qualified X for Fixed Price - Only the eligible qualifiers are given at fixed price. (This template will only be available when Q1 or mix and match multiple of Q1 qualifier has been configured) Benefit Templates B6 Fixed Price (Spread) - A fixed cost is spread across all target items Note: When the fixed price is applied to the group it will be prorated over the group items. For example, if the deal is "4 Shirts for 150.00" and customer buys a 25.00 shirt, a 50.00 shirt, a 75.00 shirt, and a 100.00 shirt, the user will receive all 4 for total of 150.00. The resulting extended price of each shirt will be 15.00, 30.00, 45.00, and 60.00. Payment Deals Some retailers provide a discount when the customer pays with a specific kind of payment type, like the retailer’s own branded credit card (PLCC – private label credit card). To support this, the promotional event can be configured to use “Payment Type” as a qualifier rule inclusion parameter. Payment Deal Settings Qualifier Inclusions – Within qualifier inclusion configuration, it is possible to set a Payment Type(s) as inclusion criteria. Only when these payment type(s) are used will the deal apply. The “Payment Type” inclusion parameter is enabled for all promotion types Payment types that have [Payment Capture Config > ‘Permit Customer Present Sales’ and ‘Permit Assisted Sales’ = ‘true’] will show in the ‘Available’ selection criteria. This payment type list is also displayed when the user clicks ‘Checkout’ on the Cart screen. Although they are shown in the list, Payment deals cannot be created for the following payment types as they each have a dedicated 'base' flow which does not allow for order pricing re-evaluation.  Payment deals work with Custom payment types such as PLCC only. Credit Card Debit Card Gift Card Cash Check Pay by link Payment Type inclusion works as a “transaction level” qualifier, similar to order, customer, and employee qualifiers. It can be used in conjunction with other transaction level qualifiers and with item level qualifiers. When setting up the new deal qualifier rules which include a payment type, there are at least two required inclusions. If either is not set, the user will not be allowed to proceed. Selling Channel Payment Type Example: A deal can be available only to Gold customers who pay with PLCC when transaction subtotal exceeds 100.00 in selling channel STORE. (4 separate 'order level' qualifying conditions). Bounceback Coupon Deals 'Bounceback' terminology means the benefit of these deals is not applied to the current transaction as any kind of promotional discount.  Rather, this type of deal issues a token to the customer - either a simple Coupon or an Offer Number (single use coupon) - which is associated to the order data and included as part of the base receipt template.  This number is included along with appropriate explanatory text and an associated bar code on the receipt which is printed or emailed to the customer. When creating the 'bounceback' deal, it is assumed that a redeeming deal that allows the customer to 'redeem' the coupon or offer number has already been created, by methods previously discussed. Accessing Bounceback coupon deals Bounceback coupons can be accessed, created, edited from the Promotion Configuration screen > Deal tab. All existing bounceback coupons can be filtered by selecting "Bounceback Coupon" as promo type. Bounceback coupons can also be filtered or searched based on Bounceback Type and Bounceback Code. For ex: As a user I can filter out all Coupon Code bounceback type by entering the text "Coupon Code" in the search field, same is for "Reference Deal Code", or I can specifically search all Bounceback coupon which issues "GET$10OFF" simply by entering the text in the search field. Creating Bounceback coupons Bounceback coupons can be created by selecting promotion type as "Bounceback coupon" in the new deal screen. Please check the rules of bounceback coupon promotion type below. Upon selecting promotion type as "Bounceback coupon" some values are defaulted and disabled i.e. Coupon required as No, Offer Number required as No, Stackable as Yes. Stack sequence needs to be provided by the user. Qualifiers: Bounceback coupon supports all qualifiers i.e. Q1, Q2, Q3, Q4 and Q5. Target: Target is not applicable to bounceback, hence it is hidden from config UI. This is because the benefit here is just issuing a coupon which can be used only in eligible future transaction/s. Benefit: Only B7 i.e. Issue a coupon is applicable. Benefit can be of below 2 types which are referenced here as Bounceback Type, the coupon code or reference deal code should be entered in Bounceback Code field. Coupon Code Select Coupon Code as the bounceback Type for issuing coupons. Provide coupon code in the bounceback code field. The coupon code should exist in the system. The coupon code can belong to one or more deals. Based on qualifiers in the redeeming transaction applicable deals of the coupon is/are applied. Reference Deal Code Select Reference Deal Code as the bounceback type for issuing unique offer numbers. Provide Deal Id in the bounceback code field for the offerNumber related promotion. This deal Id/code should exist in the system prior to using as bounceback code. Coupon Description: Enter the description of the coupon or offer number that's issued as bounceback. This is printed in the receipt along with the coupon barcode and coupon code.  This information is important so the customer knows what this special number/barcode can be used for - ex. "Present this coupon and get 10% off your next footwear purchase." Max Redemption: Max redemption is defaulted as 99 for Q1, Q2 and Q5. and 1 for Q3 and Q4, but it can be edited by the user.  In this context, it means, there is a limit to the number of times this deal can be awarded in the same transaction. For ex. If the bounceback deal is "Buy 1 pair of shoes and get a coupon for 10% off footwear" and Max redemption is 2, the customer buys 3 pairs of shoes, then the customer receipt will have coupon printed 2 times as per the max redemption. Please note that this is mainly useful for single-use coupons. Qualifier Rules: Depending on the qualifiers selected in the template, the rules are applied. For ex: Item attribute rule are mandatory for Q1, Q2 and Q5 only and Order selling channel rule is applicable for all qualifiers. Shipping attributes as qualifier rules is not applicable for bounceback coupon type of promotion. Add inclusion rules for orderType and make sure to exclude "Quote Order". Generating a bounceback coupon is not supported for Quote orders. Payment attributes can be used as well. Target Rules: Not applicable for bounceback promo. Promotions Applied to Base Price for Markdown items When a promotion is created with "Apply on base price" = true, then only limited promotion template configurations are allowed. This is to guide the user to create realistic promotions and confine the usage of markdown promotions. This means only the following type of deal is supported for this type of promo logic - Only deals based on specific item categories where the target belongs in the same category and the benefit is % off. Restating in terms of our Promotional Templates, only Q1 (Buy N of X) + T5 (Get Entire X) + B2 (% off) template combination is supported when "Apply on Base Price" = true. Note: This deal is only applicable to non-stackable deal. This deal can never be stacked but other deals can stack on this, whenever applicable, which means selective stackability can also be applied for such deals. Using COPY to Create a New Deal From the DEAL LIST, user can highlight any deal and select COPY.  In this case an exact duplicate of the selected deal - including associated Location Groups, Tags, and/or Events - will be created EXCEPT for the Deal ID. As with creating a deal by any other method, the user must supply a unique Deal ID for the new deal. Configuration Services, UIs, and Entities The configuration services mentioned in this document and any configuration UIs that are available are listed in the table below, along with information to navigate to the API documentation. Service Config-UI Name Component Group Service EndPoint Seed Data Present? Seed Data Profile Promo Event Promotion Configuration price-promo Promo Event pricepromo/api/pricepromo/promoEvent Promo Config Template Promotion Configuration price-promo Promo Config Template pricepromo/api/pricepromo/promoConfigTemplate Yes System Augmentable Promotion Configuration Promotion Global Parameters price-promo Promotion Configurations pricepromo/api/pricepromo/promotionConfigurations Yes Base Promo Location Group Promotion Configuration price-promo Promotion Location Group pricepromo/api/pricepromo/promotionLocationGroup Item Promotion Config Promotion Configuration price-promo Item Promotion Config pricepromo/api/pricepromo/saveItemPromotionConfig Item Promotion Config Promotion Configuration price-promo Item Promotion Config pricepromo/api/pricepromo/itemPromotionBenefit Combo Deal Promotion Configuration price-promo Promotion Configurations pricepromo/api/pricepromo/combopromo/saveComboPromotionConfigFacade Coupon Use Drives Promo Promotion Configuration price-promo Promotion Configurations /api/storefacade/posservice/order/couponStatusSummary/ Shipping Promotion price-promo Promotion Configurations /api/pricepromo/basket/promotion Price Basket for Order and Item price-promo Price Basket /api/pricepromo/basket/price Offer Number Configuration Offer Number Config price-promo Promotion Global Parameters pricepromo/api/pricepromo/offerNumberConfig/ Offer Number Configuration Offer Number Config price-promo Promotion Global Parameters pricepromo/api/pricepromo/promotionConfigurations/PromotionConfigId/CONFIG Get Offer number Generation Status Promotion Configuration price-promo Promotion Configurations /pricepromo/api/pricepromo/offerNumber/isReadyToDownload? Download Offer number Promotion Configuration price-promo Promotion Configurations pricepromo/api/pricepromo/offerNumber/downloadOfferNumbers? CreateOrUpdateOrder price-promo reserveOfferNumbers /posservice/api/posservice/order/reserveOfferNumbers Profile Purpose The profile purposes of all the configuration entities are listed below. The default profile would be retail for this profile purpose. prc::itemPriceConfig prc::itemPrice prc::promo