# Product Access Filter

**Permalink:** item-access-filter
**Content Length:** 11,572 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:54.783325

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Configurations&rsaquo;&rsaquo;User ››Product Access Filter Item Access Filter &nbsp; &nbsp; Item Access FilterCreating an Item Access FilterEditing&nbsp;an Item Access Filter&nbsp;Deleting an Item Access FilterField Description The item access filter allows users to restrict access&nbsp;to&nbsp;supplies and allocations, which are based on item attributes.&nbsp; &nbsp; Note: The item access filters are configured before assigning them,&nbsp; and the supplies and allocations that are viewed by you are filtered using item access filters.&nbsp; This page is accessed by administrators and managers.&nbsp; Example 1: The user should have access to Men&#39;s and Women&#39;s departments. Attribute = DepartmentId Values = Mens, Womens &nbsp; Multiple item access&nbsp;filters assigned to the same user are&nbsp;defined at the same, lowest item attribute level. Example 2 : Men&#39;s department has Shirts, Pants, Jackets classes. Women&#39;s department has Shirts, Pants, Jackets, Dresses, Maternity classes. User can access all of Mens department and Women&#39;s Shirts, Pants, Jackets, Dresses (excluding Maternity). Attribute = ClassId Values = Shirts, Pants, Jackets, Dresses. &nbsp; Filters:&nbsp;You can use the following attributes to filter item access. Item Access Filter Id Description Creating an Item Access Filter You can create a new item access filter via a wizard. &nbsp; To create a new item access filter: Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Configurations&nbsp; &gt; User &gt;&nbsp; Item Access Filter Click&nbsp;Create&nbsp;to view the&nbsp;Create&nbsp;New Item Access Filter&nbsp;wizard. The wizard is categorized into different pages. In the&nbsp;Item Access Filter Definition&nbsp;section, enter the Item Access Filter Id. Enter the Description of the item access filter. Note: Mandatory fields are denoted with *. Click&nbsp;Save and Continue.&nbsp;&nbsp; In the Configure item Filters section, Click&nbsp;Add New. The Add New&nbsp;popup&nbsp;window displays to view&nbsp;the Item Access Filter Detail. Select the Attribute from the drop-down list. Department&nbsp; Class&nbsp; Subclass&nbsp; Enter Values. Multiple values can be entered as comma-separated values. Click Submit. Click&nbsp;&nbsp;Save and Finish.&nbsp; The item access filter record is created. &nbsp; Editing&nbsp;an Item Access Filter&nbsp; You can edit the attributes of the existing item access filter information from the following steps. Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Configurations&nbsp; &gt; User &gt; Item&nbsp;Access Filter Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. The item access filter records are listed in the pane. Note: You can edit an item record in 2 different ways, via&nbsp;the swipe-out board,&nbsp; and the Edit button.&nbsp; You can&nbsp;Clone, View item List, Edit, and Delete using Swipe Out board. &nbsp; Swipe Out Board In the Edit item access filter wizard, modify the required fields in&nbsp;Item Access Filter Definition and&nbsp;Configure Item Filters sections. Click&nbsp;Save and&nbsp;Continue&nbsp;button on each screen to move to the next screen. Click&nbsp;Finish and Save&nbsp;to save the modified item access filter&nbsp;details. Edit View Select the required record.&nbsp;The action buttons are displayed in the footer section. Click the&nbsp;Edit&nbsp;button to view Edit item access&nbsp;filter wizard. Modify the required sections. Click&nbsp;Finish and Save&nbsp;to save the modified item&nbsp;access filter&nbsp;details. Deleting an Item Access Filter The item&nbsp;access filter records can be deleted by the following steps. &nbsp; Note: You can delete a method record in 2 different ways via the Swipe-out board and Delete button. Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Configurations&nbsp; &gt; User &gt; Item Access Filter Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. The item access filter records are listed in the pane. Swipe Out Board &nbsp;Swipe-out menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Delete. A warning message pop-up prompts as&nbsp;&#39;Deletion of Item Access Filter is irreversible&#39;. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the item access filter record. Delete Select the required record. The footer section with action buttons is displayed. A warning message pop-up prompts as&nbsp;&#39;Deletion of Item Access Filter is irreversible&#39;. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the item access filter record. Field Description The following are the field descriptions of the attributes available on the screen. Field Description Item Access Filter Definition Item Access Filter Id The unique identifier of the item access filter definition Description The description of the item access filter definition. Configure Item Filters Attribute Select the attribute to configure the item filter from the drop-down list. Department&nbsp; Class&nbsp; Subclass&nbsp; Values Enter the values to configure item&nbsp;filters.&nbsp;&nbsp;Multiple values can be entered as comma-separated values. Values should be valid values for the selected attribute. Example: Value1, Value2, etc.. Action Buttons Related Links Select the records and click on the Related Links (View User Access) hyperlink to navigate to the&nbsp;User Item Access screen. Clone Click this button to navigate to the Clone popup window. Select Prefix or Suffix options. Enter prefix or suffix value and Click Apply button. The Cloned Entity name field is updated with a new prefix and suffix value or you can enter values manually in the cloned entity name field. Click Save. The new cloned record is added to the list page. Item List Opens the Item&nbsp;Details Results page. It contains the list of Item Id, Item Name, Department, Class, and Subclass records. The list of items meets the criteria configured for that item filter. Edit&nbsp; Edit the item access filter records. This button is available in multiple sections of the screen. Read&nbsp;Edit Item access filter for more information. Delete Delete the item access filter records. Deselect &nbsp;Clear the selected records.