# Item Location Grade

**Permalink:** item-location-grade
**Content Length:** 15,236 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:38.485052

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Configurations&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Item Location ››Item Location Grade Item Location Grade &nbsp; Item Location GradeFiltersCreating an Item&nbsp;Location Grade&nbsp;Editing an Item Location Grade&nbsp;Deleting an&nbsp;Item Location Grade&nbsp;Field Description The Item Location Grade screen is used to assign the grades for each store for the respective item categories. Item location grades can be assigned across different item hierarchy levels. &nbsp; For example, grades can be configured as below. &nbsp; Item Hierarchy Level&nbsp;Filters &nbsp; Actual Item Hierarchy Level Filter value to be interfaced &nbsp; Location &nbsp; Grade &nbsp; Men&rsquo;s &ldquo;DepartmentId:&rdquo;Men&rsquo;s&rdquo; Atlanta-Store A Men&#39;s &rarr; Formals &rarr; Tops &ldquo;DepartmentId:&rdquo;Men&rsquo;s&rdquo;, &ldquo;ClassId&rdquo;:&rdquo;Formals&rdquo;, &ldquo;SubclassId&rdquo;:&rdquo;Tops&rdquo; Atlanta-Store B &nbsp; The grades for the items with different hierarchy level values are derived below. &nbsp; &nbsp;Items created with Item&nbsp;Hierarchy Levels&nbsp; &nbsp; Location &nbsp; Grade &nbsp; Men&#39;s &rarr; Formals &rarr; Tops Atlanta-Store B (both the grades are matching since the department is &#39;Men&#39;. Out of that, we will consider the grade &#39;B&rsquo; available at the lowest hierarchy level. ) Men&#39;s &rarr; Formals &rarr; Bottom Atlanta-Store A (Here only grade A is matched since the subclassId (bottom) is different for the item) &nbsp; Filters The&nbsp; item location grade filters are: Grade Location Id StartDate Hierarchy Level 1 Hierarchy Level 2 Hierarchy Level 3 Hierarchy Level 4 Hierarchy Level 5 Hierarchy Level 6 Note:&nbsp;Only six hierarchy filters will be displayed in the filter panel. Users can add&nbsp;the rest of the hierarchy levels from the Available Filters section in&nbsp;the Customize Filters window.&nbsp;&nbsp; Creating an Item&nbsp;Location Grade&nbsp; To create a new item location grade: Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Configuration&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Item Location&nbsp;&gt; Item Location Grade Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Click&nbsp;Create&nbsp;to view the Item Location Grade&nbsp;window. On the&nbsp;Item Location Grade&nbsp;page, enter a unique&nbsp;Location Id. &nbsp;Select the Grade from the drop-down list. Select&nbsp;Hierarchy Level 1&nbsp;(This field is mandatory),&nbsp; Hierarchy Level 2,&nbsp; Hierarchy Level 3,&nbsp; and all the other applicable Hierarchy Levels from the respective&nbsp;drop-down lists.&nbsp;The number of hierarchy fields displayed here will depend on how many hierarchy levels are configured. Hierarchy Level 1 must be defined before Hierarchy Level 2 and so on.&nbsp; The first hierarchy level value drop-down contains distinct entries from the corresponding field in item entity.&nbsp;The next hierarchy level value drop-down contains distinct entities from the corresponding field in item entity with matching hierarchy values in the previous level. &nbsp;Grades are assigned with a start date. Select the StartDate from the&nbsp;advanced time selection calendar. The start date&nbsp;is used to identify when the grade becomes effective. Multiple grades can be configured for the specific item with different hierarchy level start dates. Click&nbsp;Save and Finish. Editing an Item Location Grade&nbsp; To edit an item location grade: Swipe-out List Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Configuration&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Item Location&nbsp;&gt; Item&nbsp;Location Grade Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Select the required item record. Swipe-out the menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Edit. In the&nbsp;Item Location Grade&nbsp;window, modify the required fields. The grade and start date fields are editable. Click&nbsp;Save &amp; Close&nbsp;to save the modified grade details. Edit View Select the required grade record card. The action buttons are displayed in the footer section. Click&nbsp;Edit&nbsp;to view the&nbsp;Item&nbsp;Location Grade&nbsp;window, and modify the required fields.&nbsp;The grade and start date fields are editable. Click&nbsp;Save &amp; Close&nbsp;to save the modified grade details. Deleting an&nbsp;Item Location Grade&nbsp; The item location grade records can be deleted by following one of the below procedures: Swipe-out List Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Configuration&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Item Location &gt; Item Location Grade Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Swipe-out menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts as &#39;Deletion of item location grade is irreversible&#39;. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the grade. Delete Select the required record card. The footer section with action buttons is displayed. Select&nbsp;Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts as &#39;Deletion of item location grade is irreversible&#39;. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the grade. Field Description Following are the field descriptions of the attributes available on the screen. &nbsp; Field &nbsp; Description &nbsp; Location Id An alphanumeric ID that uniquely defines each grade. Grade&nbsp; The grades for items with different hierarchy values. Hierarchy Level 1 to Hierarchy Level 10 The item hierarchy levels. StartDate Grades are assigned with a start date.&nbsp;Multiple grades can be configured for the specific item category&nbsp;having different start dates. &nbsp; &nbsp; Action Buttons The following are the action buttons available on the screen. &nbsp; Select All Rows Selects all the rows of records on the screen. Export Exports the list of grade attributes, the file will be downloaded onto your system. View&nbsp;Export&nbsp;for more information. Export Data Loader The export data loader button allows a user to export all the data in all the pages that were returned from the filter on the UI into a spreadsheet format. The Export Data Loader is asynchronous.&nbsp; The system does not provide an option&nbsp;for the selection of fields.&nbsp;By default, all fields will be exported/imported. &nbsp; Upon completion of the export, if configured, an alert notification will appear on the top right corner of the UI. Import Data Loader The import data loader button allows a user to import data from a spreadsheet into the system.&nbsp; The user can use the exported spreadsheet as a template for importing new data into the system. When this import data loader button is clicked, the user is presented with a modal where they can choose the file name and the location to upload from.&nbsp; Upon completion of the export, if configured, an alert notification will appear on the top right corner of the UI. Create Opens the&nbsp;Create Item Location Grade&nbsp;window.&nbsp; Deselect Clears the selected records. Edit Opens the relevant&nbsp;Item Location Grade&nbsp;window. Delete Deletes the selected record.