# Item Location Phase

**Permalink:** item-location-phase
**Content Length:** 11,646 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:39.254394

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Configurations&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Item Location ››Item Location Phase Item Location Phase &nbsp; Item Location PhaseFiltersCreating an Item Location PhaseEditing an Item&nbsp;Location PhaseDeleting an Item Location PhaseField Description The item location phase specifies the current life cycle phase of categories of&nbsp;an item for a specified location.&nbsp;For categories of items to be part of the allocation phase, the current business date should be greater than or equal to the season start date and less than or equal to the season end date. The item location phase can be configured at the item hierarchy level.&nbsp;This can be configured across different item hierarchy levels for an item&nbsp;to consider the constraint that is closest to the leaf. &nbsp; Filters The&nbsp; item location phase filters are: Allocation Phase Location Id StartDate EndDate Hierarchy Level 1 Hierarchy Level 2 Hierarchy Level 3 Hierarchy Level 4 Hierarchy Level 5 Hierarchy Level 6 Note:&nbsp;Only six hierarchy filters will be displayed in the filter panel. Users can add&nbsp;the rest of the hierarchy levels from the Available Filters section in&nbsp;the Customize Filters window.&nbsp;&nbsp; Creating an Item Location Phase &nbsp; To create a new item location phase: &nbsp; Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Configuration&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Item Location&nbsp;&gt; Item Location&nbsp;&gt; Item Location Phase Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Click&nbsp;Create&nbsp;to view the&nbsp;Item Location Phase&nbsp;window.&nbsp; On the Item&nbsp;Location Phase&nbsp;page, enter a Source Location Id. &nbsp;Select the&nbsp;Allocation Phase from the drop-down list. The supported allocation phases are: PRE_SEASON IN_SEASON END_OF_SEASON Select&nbsp;Hierarchy Level 1&nbsp;(This field is mandatory),&nbsp;&nbsp;Hierarchy Level 2,&nbsp;&nbsp;Hierarchy Level 3,&nbsp; and all the other applicable Hierarchy Levels from the respective&nbsp;drop-down lists.&nbsp;The number of hierarchy fields displayed here will depend on how many hierarchy levels are configured. Hierarchy Level 1 must be defined before Hierarchy Level 2 and so on.&nbsp; The first hierarchy level value drop-down contains distinct entries from the corresponding field in the item entity.&nbsp;The next hierarchy level value drop-down contains distinct entities from the corresponding field in item entity with matching hierarchy values in the previous level.&nbsp;All higher hierarchy levels must be defined.&nbsp; Select the&nbsp;StartDate and EndDate&nbsp;from the&nbsp;advanced time selection calendar.&nbsp;&nbsp;For an item location to&nbsp;be part of the allocation phase,&nbsp; the current business date should be greater than or equal to the season start date and less than or equal to the season end date. Click&nbsp;Save and Finish. Editing an Item&nbsp;Location Phase To edit an item location phase: &nbsp; Swipe-out List Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Configuration&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Item Location&nbsp;&gt; Item Location&nbsp;&gt; Item Location Phase Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Select the required item location phase record. Swipe-out the menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Edit. In the&nbsp;Item Location Phase&nbsp;window, modify the required fields. The start date and end date fields are editable. Click&nbsp;Save &amp; Close&nbsp;to save the modified phase details.&nbsp;The start date and end date fields are editable. Edit View Select the required item location phase record card. The action buttons are displayed in the footer section. Click&nbsp;Edit&nbsp;to view the&nbsp;Item Location Phase&nbsp;window, and modify the required fields. Click&nbsp;Save &amp; Close&nbsp;to save the modified phase details. Deleting an Item Location Phase The item location phase records can be deleted by following one of the below procedures: Swipe-out List Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Configuration&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Item Location&nbsp;&gt; Item Location&nbsp;&gt; Item Location Phase Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Swipe-out menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts as &#39;Deletion of item&nbsp;location phase is irreversible&#39;. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the phase. Delete Select the required record card. The footer section with action buttons is displayed. Select&nbsp;Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts as &#39;Deletion of item location phase is irreversible&#39;. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the phase. Field Description The following are the field descriptions of the attributes available on the screen. &nbsp; Field &nbsp; Description &nbsp; Source Location Id An alphanumeric source&nbsp;ID that uniquely defines each item location phase. Hierarchy Level 1 to Hierarchy Level 10 The item hierarchy levels. Allocation Phase The categories of items are to be part of the allocation phase.&nbsp; They are,&nbsp; PRE_SEASON -&nbsp;When items are in planning stage or before the selling season starts. IN_SEASON - It&nbsp;signifies items are in selling season. END_OF_SEASON -&nbsp;&nbsp;It&nbsp;signifies the item has&nbsp;just completed the selling season and the item selling is about to end. StartDate &amp; EndDate The current business date should be greater than or equal to the season start date and less than or equal to the season end date. &nbsp; Action Buttons The following are the action buttons available on the screen. &nbsp; Select All Rows Selects all the rows of records on the screen. Export Exports the list of item location phase attributes, and the file will be downloaded onto your system. View&nbsp;Export&nbsp;for more information. Create Opens the&nbsp;Create Item Location Phase&nbsp;window.&nbsp; Export Data Loader It&nbsp;allows a user to export the data&nbsp;that is returned from the filter on the UI into a spreadsheet format. All fields will be exported. There is no option to select specific fields to be exported. Export Data Loader process is asynchronous. &nbsp; Upon completion of the export, an alert notification will appear on the&nbsp;top right corner of the UI. Import Data Loader It allows a user to import data from a spreadsheet into the system.&nbsp;The user can use the exported spreadsheet as a template for importing new data into the system.&nbsp;When this import data loader button is clicked, the user is presented with a modal where they can choose the file name and the location to upload from.&nbsp;&nbsp;Upon completion of the import,&nbsp;an alert notification will appear on the top right corner of the UI.&nbsp; Deselect Clears the selected records. Edit Opens the relevant&nbsp;item Location Phase&nbsp;window. Delete Deletes the selected record.