# Item Location Deactivation

**Permalink:** item-location-deactivation
**Content Length:** 22,213 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:37:33.348139

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process &amp; Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Replenishment ››Item Location Deactivation Item Location Deactivation Previous&nbsp;I&nbsp;Next Overview&nbsp;Types of Activation/Deactivation DatesConfigurationsRelated Articles Overview&nbsp; Item Location Activation/Deactivation Dates allows you to manage the availability of items at specific locations by setting activation and deactivation dates. This helps control when the system considers an item-location for generating new purchase orders, which is useful in various scenarios like seasonal items, phased-out products, and temporary production halts. Deactivation Date: The date when an Item Location should stop being considered for new orders or when the life cycle policy changes to a non-active one. Activation Date: The date when an iItem Location should become active again, changing back to its assigned life cycle policy and resuming the generation of orders. Life Cycle Policy: Determines how the system handles an item, including its active/inactive status, and if it will generate purchase orders. The correct life cycle policy must be set up for deactivation dates to function. Life Cycle Codes - Lifecycle codes help the system determine which lifecycle policy to apply when using Item Location deactivation dates. Life cycle codes are available at Item inheritance policy as default and at Item level for user to configure. Types of Activation/Deactivation Dates &nbsp; Deactivation Date (Without Activation Date) The purpose of this feature is to establish a date when an Item Location should cease active ordering and transition to a non-active life cycle policy, particularly when the reactivation date is unknown. Once this date is reached, the system will automatically update the Item Location&#39;s life cycle policy, halting the calculation of order quantities and preventing the generation of new orders. The Item Location will remain in this non-active state until a manual change is made. &nbsp; Activation Date (Without Deactivation Date) The purpose of this feature is to set a date when an inactive Item Location should be reactivated, enabling the system to include it once again in the ordering process. When the activation date is reached, the system will revert to the Item Location&#39;s assigned life cycle policy and begin generating new purchase orders. Until this activation date is met, no new orders will be suggested. If the Item Location has a future &#39;Deactivate Until Date,&#39; it will remain inactive until that specified date. &nbsp; Combining Deactivation and Activation Dates The purpose of this feature is to define a period of unavailability for an Item Location, with a planned return date. During the period between the deactivation and activation dates, the Item Location will remain inactive. Once the activation date is reached, the Item Location will become active again. &nbsp; Impact of Setting Deactivation/Activation Dates Life Cycle Policy: The system transitions between life cycle policies according to the specified deactivation and activation dates. The life cycle code determines which policy should be applied when these dates are reached, ensuring the Item Location is managed appropriately during its inactive period. Inventory: The deactivation and activation dates may influence order quantities. As the change date approaches, the system may limit order quantities if the new life cycle policy does not suggest orders. This ensures that the Item Location&#39;s inventory position is at or near zero by the time the policy change occurs. &nbsp; Example: &nbsp; Scenario Configuration Result Deactivation Date (Without Activation Date) Configured date - 4th January 2024 Deactivation Date - 1st March 2024 Activation Date - NA Item location will be inactive from 1st March 2024. Life cycle policy will update as inactive from 1st March 2024 Activation Date (Without Deactivation Date) Configured date - 4th January 2024 Deactivation Date - NA Activation Date - 2nd March 2024 Item location will be reactivated from 2nd March 2024. Life cycle policy - Inactive - From 4th January 2024 to 1st March 2024 Active - From 2nd March Deactivation Date & Activation Date Configured date - 4th January 2024 Deactivation Date - 1st February 2024 Activation Date - 2nd March 2024 Item location will be inactive from 1st February 2024 - 1st March 2024. Life cycle policy - Inactive - 1st February 2024 - 1st March 2024. Active - From 2nd March &nbsp; Configurations How to set up item location Activation/Deactivation Dates: Active and Deactive Date{{url}}/itemlocation/api/itemlocation/itemLocation/save &nbsp; { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ItemId&quot;: &quot;S001-MShirt-LS-Blue-S&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;LocationId&quot;: &quot;171&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ItemLocationId&quot;: &quot;ec9b74b020856410891a51a79099a4fe&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ActivationDate&quot;: &quot;2015-01-05&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;DeactivationDate&quot;: &quot;2015-02-11&quot; } &nbsp; Related Articles Break Point PricingHub and SpokeMaximum Economic Order Cycle DaysReplenishment - OverviewPlanogramNew Store ModelingCalendar Build Pattern and ExceptionBulk Update Batch UpdateOrder GroupConstrained Supply AllocationLead Time ForecastingSOQ Computation &nbsp; &nbsp;