# Japan

**Permalink:** japan
**Content Length:** 8,764 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:35:52.483705

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Point of Sale&rsaquo;&rsaquo;POS Classic Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;POS Classic Fiscalization and Globalization ››Japan Japan OverviewYen RoundingTax ConfigurationRyo shu shoRevenue Stamp or Stamp Duty&nbsp;&quot;Shuji-in&quot; Overview Japan is a non-fiscal country. There are no specific laws or other regulations specifically dedicated to fiscalization.&nbsp;However, there are requirements for retail&nbsp;transactions and issuing receipts derived&nbsp;from the Civil Code (main act of private law), and rules for specific topics from regulations such as the Consumer Contract Act, Act on Specified Commercial Transactions etc.&nbsp; Language:&nbsp;Although Japanese is not the official language determined as such by law, it is, de facto, the national language and considered in practice actually the official language.&nbsp; There is no law requirement that the POS application must support Japanese and, consequently, no fine or penalty defined in case it does not, but it is assumed that Japanese should be used and is expected so.&nbsp;The locale can be configured as detailed on the&nbsp;localization configuration&nbsp;guide. Currency: Japanese Yen (&yen;) or referred as JPY.&nbsp;The buyer must pay the price in Japanese currency, unless otherwise agreed by the parties. Even when the amount is specified in a foreign currency, buyer can pay in Japanese currency.&nbsp; Yen Rounding The Japanese Yen (JPY) does not have a cent in circulation, the&nbsp;lowest value is 1 JPY. When a user enters an amount in decimal places, Manhattan Active&reg; Omni&nbsp;POS will round it to the nearest non-decimal value. For example, if a user enters 15.67, the application will automatically convert this value to 16.00. To enable currency rounding, please refer to&nbsp;this guide. The retailer is required to configure appropriate denominations in backoffice &gt; currency denomination (nothing lower than 1) and decimal places via backoffice &gt; currency Record &gt; decimal places (should be 0). Retailers must conform to the currency requirements in defining item prices, charge/fee amounts, promotional fixed prices and benefits, etc. Ex. Required to configure item price at 15.00 not 15.95, configure Shipping Charge of 5.00 not 4.99. Tax Configuration Japan&#39;s taxation is&nbsp;value added tax (VAT) and it represents a consumption tax that is applicable to domestic goods or services and which falls under the supervision of the National Tax Agency. Apart from consumption Tax and stamp duty tax laws are relevant. VAT&nbsp;Rates: VAT rates are categorized into buckets below. Standard 10% Reduced rate: 8&nbsp;% (Food, beverages & newspapers&nbsp;etc.) * The above VAT rates are as of Dec-2022, which might be subjected to change as per local laws. VAT Tax Configuration:&nbsp;The information about configuring the country&nbsp;as VAT is&nbsp;detailed in the&nbsp;localization configuration&nbsp;guide.&nbsp; Ryo shu sho (Ryo shu sho = 領収書 ) The expression used for receipts, widely known in practice, is Ryoshusho.&nbsp;Traditionally, Ryoshusho is recognized as a paper proof of payment used for decades in Japan. They were initially issued from pre-printed books of receipts, containing the official seal of the seller. In the modern POS world, this can be termed as receipts generated by POS registers, which has some principles guiding that the Ryoshusho contains the following elements:&nbsp; Retailer&#39;s business name&nbsp; Customer&#39;s name&nbsp; Details of the transaction include the purchased item&#39;s short description, retail price and taxes Stamp of the retailer&nbsp; Individuals and companies are typically concerned to&nbsp;procure a valid&nbsp;Ryoshusho&nbsp;during their purchase because&nbsp;Ryoshusho&nbsp;will have consumption taxes which customers paid. And these taxes are typically creditable/refundable by filling&nbsp;consumption tax returns. A base receipt printed from Manhattan Active&reg; Omni-POS, when POS is correctly configured for currency and locale,&nbsp;for the most part suffices as an acceptable ryoshusho.&nbsp; If desired the base receipt can be customized to show a whitespace or outline&nbsp;area for the revenue stamp to be affixed, or, to include graphic representation of the stamp itself.&nbsp; See below for more detail.&nbsp; Revenue Stamp or Stamp Duty&nbsp;&quot;Shuji-in&quot; &quot;Shuji-in&quot; (収入印), also known as a revenue stamp or &quot;stamp duty,&quot; is applicable in Japan when a transaction exceeds a certain threshold amount. Specifically, when the total amount of a transaction (such as a purchase at a shop/retail store) exceeds 50,000 yen, the retailer is required to attach a revenue stamp to the receipt. The purpose of the revenue stamp is to indicate that the necessary tax (consumption tax) has been paid on the transaction, and&nbsp;this serves as proof that the necessary tax has been paid on the transaction, and it is one of the ways Japan ensures proper tax compliance for larger transactions. The revenue stamp fee is typically 200 yen if the transaction amount is under 1,000,000 yen. If the amount exceeds 1,000,000 yen, the stamp fee increases proportionally. Revenue stamp on POS receipts: Retailers can customize Manhattan Active&reg; Omni&nbsp;POS base receipts to apply the &quot;revenue stamp fee&quot; in the form of stamp/postage (Manual stickers) or image (systematically upload image to the POS receipt)&nbsp;or just a signature, depending on the nature of businesses and local governance.&nbsp; Services The&nbsp;APIs listed below&nbsp;are related&nbsp;to French fiscal sales at Manhattan Active&reg; Point Of Sale and are referenced in this document.&nbsp;Refer to API documentation for additional details on&nbsp;each service. Service Component Group Service Endpoint Currency Config Order &nbsp; /order/api/order/currencyConfig/save