# Kits in Call Center

**Permalink:** kits-in-call-center
**Content Length:** 6,155 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:33:40.678605

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Customer Service ››Kits in Call Center Kits in Call Center Kit IconKit Details PopupScreens that Include the Kit Details PopupRelated Articles Overview A kit item is one which includes several component items. The component items may be sold individually, but can also be bundled together as a kit with a unique SKU. An example of a kit is a dining set, which is composed of four chairs and one table. The chairs and tables are sold separately under different SKU IDs, but then sold as a kit together. For retailers who sell a significant volume of kits, it is helpful for the agent to be able to walk through all the items in the kit to verify it's the correct one. To assist the agents, access to kit information is provided from key screens used during the order and return process. Refer here for more information.&nbsp; Kit Icon On the Item Search Screen, images on the selection section of the screen include a kit icon, which appears in the left-hand, bottom corner of the image. When the agent chooses the item, and it's displayed in the Item details section, the icon&nbsp;includes the number of components that make up the kit. For example, if a dining set includes 1 table and 4 chairs, the kit icon would include the number 2 as the kit has two component items.&nbsp; Note: The kit icon is not included for recommended items, as the information is accessible once she chooses the item.&nbsp; Kit Details Popup At different points in the order and return cycles, the agent will want to discuss the kit component items with the customer. While placing the order, the agent can confirm that the correct kit is ordered by reviewing the various component items with the customer. During a return, the agent can walk through the list of component items that must be returned in order for the customer to receive a refund. And if the customer calls in with questions regarding a return or order, having component information is helpful on the status screens.&nbsp; To access the component level information, the agent can click on the kit icon (bottom right of the item image), and the system will display the Kit Details Popup. The Kit Details Popup provides the following information:&nbsp; Kit information: includes summary information about the kit itself, like its status, the SKU ID, short description and style. For each component item, the system includes the following information: Image of the component Item Quantity: this is the number of units of this item required to make the kit x the number of kits ordered. In the dining set example, four chairs are required to make one kit. If the customer ordered one kit: Quantity = 4. If the customer ordered two kits: Quantity = 8. Item Description SKU ID Size, Color and Style (this includes hide based extensions). Screens that Include the Kit Details Popup The Kit Details Popup is available when the agent and customer need to discuss the component items. It is available from the following screens:&nbsp; Item Search (from the Item Details section) Order Status (not available in compressed mode) Order Edit (from the main screen, not from popups such as Appeasement and Promotions) Returns Return Status XO Status Customer Transaction Related Articles Item SearchTransactional EmailsTroubleshooting Transactional TextsReturns and ExchangesUI ResourcesCustomer Service Insights DashboardOverview and NavigationOrder ModificationsOrder Status InquiryCall Center ConfigurationCross-Organization Visibility