# KPI's In Allocation

**Permalink:** kpi-s-in-allocation
**Content Length:** 9,876 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:37:56.822271

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process &amp; Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Allocation&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Allocation Reporting ››KPI's In Allocation KPI's In Allocation &nbsp;I&nbsp;Next Overview Overview The following Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) are computed in allocation and displayed on the Allocator Console screen. InStock Percent Days of Supply Estimated Sell Through Overallocation Underallocation These KPIs are based on the Inventory and Expected Demand at Item Locations. Expected demand is computed based on calculated ‘Need’ using the configured ‘Allocation Method’ for calculating KPIs. These KPIs are computed at Item-location level and then aggregated and displayed at the user-selected levels (Department/Class/Sub-Class) in the Allocator console. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Sample KPI Method &nbsp; Sample KPI Method - The above method estimates the expected demand to be average of last 12 weeks for ‘RTL’ metric. &nbsp; &nbsp; Attribute ‘How many weeks of supply does this method represent’ determines how many weeks the need adjustment if any is applicable for. Refer below page for details. Allocation Method: Significance of Attribute 'How many weeks of supply does this method represent' in Need Adjustment &nbsp; Following is the business significance and overview of these KPIs: Instock %: Instock % is the indicator of the percentage of active Item-Locations that have non-zero inventory. An Item Location is Instock if its Onhand Inventory &gt;0. At aggregate level, In stock %= Sum of Instock Item locations/Count of total Item-Locations which are active in the selected season. Days of Supply Days of supply is an indicator of the days for which the current total inventory will suffice based on the expected demand. Total Inventory includes the on-hand, on-order and allocated inventory for the itemlocation. Expected demand is computed based on the user defined need computation method Higher the total inventory at item-location, higher is the days of supply Higher the expected demand at item-location, lower is the days of supply.&nbsp; Note : Only active Item-locations are considered for this calculation. Estimated Sell Through Estimated Sell Through is a metric that tells a user what percentage of the current inventory will be sold within a certain time period. Expected demand is computed based on the user defined need computation method and user configured time period. Attribute Name : EstimatedSellThroughDays in Global parameters (Allocation Component). Default Value : One Month Higher the expected demand at item-location, higher is the Estimated Sell Through for item-location Over Allocation and Under Allocation Over allocated Item Locations are the item-locations where total inventory is higher than the need. Overallocation inventory is the total inventory at item-location where total inventory is higher than the need. Over allocation is how much inventory is overallocated as a % of total need across all item-locations Under allocated Item Locations are the item locations where total inventory is lesser than the need. Underallocation inventory is the total inventory at item-location where total inventory is lesser than the need. Under allocation is how much inventory is underallocated as a % of total need across all item-locations.