# Lead Time

**Permalink:** leadtime
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning/Process &amp; Configuration Guides/Replenishment/Factors affecting SOQ/Lead Time
**Content Length:** 23,676 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:08:07.420801

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning››Process & Configuration Guides››Replenishment››Factors affecting SOQ ››Lead Time Lead Time I Next OverviewProcess FlowConfigurationHow to set up a review date? How to set up Lead Time in Item Location Source?How to set up Lead Time in Sourcing Relationship?How to set up Lead Time Override?Implementation FlavorsTroubleshootingRelated Articles Overview Lead time is the amount of time (in days) from when the user places an order until you physically receive, restock, and make the inventory ready for use. The longer the lead time, the more days of supply are usually required to meet service levels. If the variance is large, the more safety stock you need to meet service levels. Process Flow · Compute Next Review Date First, check the "Next Lead Time" for SOQ computation. Verify if review days are configured in the sourcing relationship. If configured, compute the next review date for the sourcing relationship. Refer to the relationship configuration for more details. For the computed review date, fetch the lead time configured for that specific day of the week. Refer to the Day of Week - Lead Time configuration for more details. Check for Lead Time Override Check if a Lead Time override exists for the current business day. Refer to the "Lead Time Override" configuration for reference. Lead Time override can be set for a specific time frame, which will override the existing Lead Time from the Item Location Source and Sourcing Relationship. If a Lead Time Override exists for the current business date, compute the days of the week lead time from the lead time override. Check for Override Offset Configuration Determine if the override offset is configured: If the offset is set to 'True,' then Next Lead Time = Override Lead Time + Next Lead Time (which may come from the Item Source Location or Sourcing Relationship). If the offset is set to 'False,' then Next Lead Time = Override Lead Time. In this case, the Override Lead Time takes precedence. Usage of Day of Week - Lead Time and Default Lead Time Check if the "Day of Week - Lead Time" is configured at the Item Location Source, or Sourcing Relationship levels. If the "Day of Week - Lead Time" is not configured, then use the "Default Lead Time" setup at the Lead Time Override, Item Location Source, and Sourcing Relationship levels. Next Lead Time reference takes presidency as per the setup available in Lead Time Override, Item Location Source and Scouring Relationship level. Example: Let's assume the current business date is 15/01/2024 (Monday). CBD is on Monday and the next review day is on Wednesday as Tuesday is not a review day as per configuration. And have considered Lead Time Override as well. Lead Time 1 Lead Time 2 Lead Time 3 Lead Time 4 Lead Time 5 Lead Time 6 Lead Time 7 Default Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Review Days Y Y N Y Y Y Y Lead Time 7 3 6 7 5 8 2 3 Lead Time Override 3 2 5 6 4 5 8 7 Compute SOQ using Next Lead Time: Based on Days of week configuration, SOQ considers Next Lead Time. If Days Of Week is not configured, SOQ computation considers 'Default' lead time. In the example below, it is considered 7 as lead time(Default Lead time). If DOW is configured, then SOQ considers the next review days lead time. Days Of Week (DOW) Lead Time - 5 Default Lead Time - 7 Lead Time Override (Without Off Set) Lead Time Override (With Off Set) Inventory Position 10 10 10 10 Safety Stock 49 49 49 49 Next Lead time 50 70 40 90 If the override is set and the off set is 'True', Lead Time will be considered  LT+ Override LT If the override is set and the off set is 'False', Lead Time will consider only Override LT Review Cycle 20 20 20 20 Economic Order Cycle 0 0 0 0 Joint Order Cycle 70 70 70 70 Order Point 119 139 109 159 SS+LT+Order Cycle(review Cycle) OUTL 169 189 159 209 Safety stock + Lead Time + (Joint Order Cycle, Review Cycle or Economic Order Cycle) whichever is greater. ROQ 159 179 149 199 OUTL-Inventory  Position SOQ 159 179 149 199 Order Point = Next Lead Time + Review Cycle + Review Cycle + OPA Order up to Level (OUTL) = Safety Stock + Next Lead Time + Max(Review Cycle,Joint Order Cycle,Economic Order Cycle) + OPA ROQ = OUTL - Inventory Position. Configuration How to set up a review date? {{url}}/itemlocation/api/itemlocation/sourcingRelationship/save { "SourceLocationId": "{{DCLocId1}}", "LocationId": "{{StoreLocId1}}", "DefaultTransitTime": "7.0", "OrderCycle": "7", "RelationType": { "RelationTypeId": "Regular" }, "ReviewFrequencyValue": 1, "ReviewFrequencyType": "DAY", "IsSundayReview": true, "IsMondayReview": true, "IsTuesdayReview": true, "IsWednesdayReview": true, "IsThursdayReview": true, "IsFridayReview": true, "IsSaturdayReview": true, } How to set up Lead Time in Item Location Source? {{url}}/itemlocation/api/itemlocation/itemLocationSource/save { "ItemId": "Item1", "LocationId": "Store1", "SourceLocationId": "DC1", "BaseUOM": "EA", "PurchasingUOM": "EA", "PurchasePrice": 10.0, "CurrencyCode": "USD", "DefaultLeadTime": 7.0, "DefaultLeadTimeVariance": 100, "LeadTime1": 3.0, "LeadTimeVariance1": null, "LeadTime2": 6.0, "LeadTimeVariance2": 100, "LeadTime3": 7.0, "LeadTimeVariance3": 100, "LeadTime4": 5.0, "LeadTimeVariance4": 100, "LeadTime5": 8.0, "LeadTimeVariance5": 5.0, "LeadTime6": 2.0, "LeadTimeVariance6": 100, "LeadTime7": 3.0, "LeadTimeVariance7": 100, } How to set up Lead Time in Sourcing Relationship? {{url}}/itemlocation/api/itemlocation/sourcingRelationship/save { "SourceLocationId": "DC1", "LocationId": "Store1", "RelationType": { "RelationTypeId": "Regular" }, "DefaultLeadTime": 7.0, "DefaultLeadTimeVariance": 100, "OrderDueMethod": "SCHEDULE WITH SOQs", "LeadTime1": 3.0, "LeadTimeVariance1": 50, "LeadTime2": 4.0, "LeadTimeVariance2": 50, "LeadTime3": 5.0, "LeadTimeVariance3": 50, "LeadTime4": 8.0, "LeadTimeVariance4": 50, "LeadTime5": 10.0, "LeadTimeVariance5": 50, "LeadTime6": 12.0, "LeadTimeVariance6": 50, "LeadTime7": 14.0, "LeadTimeVariance7": 50, } How to set up Lead Time Override? {{url}}/itemlocation/api/itemlocation/leadTimeOverride/save { "LeadtimeoverrideId": null, "ItemId":"Item1", "LocationId":"Store1", "SourceLocationId":"DC1", "RelationType":"REGULAR", "BeginDate":"2020-02-17", "EndDate":"2020-02-27", "OverrideDefinedAsOffset":false, "DefaultLeadTime":3, "LeadTime1":2, "LeadTime2":5, "LeadTime3":6, "LeadTime4":4, "LeadTime5":5, "LeadTime6":8, "LeadTime7":7 } Implementation Flavors NA Troubleshooting NA Related Articles Order Pack Optimization Buying Multiple Review Cycle Manual Maximum Convenience Pack Manual Minimum Lead Time Minimum Purchase Quantity Committed Quantity