# Location Hierarchies

**Permalink:** location-hierarchies
**Content Length:** 8,486 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:41.571150

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Configurations&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Location Configurations ››Location Hierarchies &nbsp; Location Hierarchies &nbsp; Location HierarchiesCreating a Location HierarchyEditing a Location HierarchyDeleting a Location HierarchyField DescriptionAction Buttons Location Hierarchy is a system that is&nbsp;used to describe the different levels of a&nbsp;location. This hierarchy can be defined using the attributes of the locations. Hierarchies are dynamically created based on the attributes defined at each level and the defined level sequence. Users can create, view, or edit the various available location hierarchy levels on this page. By default, &#39;Primary&#39;&nbsp;location hierarchy is created with the below attributes and level sequence. Region &rarr; District &rarr; LocationId &nbsp; Filters Location Hierarchy Description &nbsp; Creating a Location Hierarchy &nbsp; To create a new Location Hierarchy: &nbsp; Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt; Configurations &gt; Location&nbsp;Configurations&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Location Hierarchies. Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Click&nbsp;Create&nbsp;to view the&nbsp;Location Hierarchy&nbsp;window. Enter the&nbsp;Location Hierarchy&nbsp;and&nbsp;Description. Select a&nbsp;Location Hierarchy Level&nbsp;and click&nbsp;Save. Note:&nbsp;All mandatory fields are denoted with *. Editing a Location Hierarchy &nbsp; To edit a Location Hierarchy: &nbsp; Swipe-out List Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt; Configurations &gt; Location Configurations&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Location Hierarchies Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Select the required hierarchy record. Swipe-out the menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Edit. In the&nbsp;Location Hierarchy&nbsp;window, modify the required fields. Click&nbsp;Save&nbsp;to save the modified hierarchy details. Edit View Select the required policy record card. The action buttons are displayed in the footer section. Click&nbsp;Edit&nbsp;to view the&nbsp;Location Hierarchy&nbsp;window, modify the required fields. Click&nbsp;Save&nbsp;to save the modified hierarchy details. &nbsp; Deleting a Location Hierarchy &nbsp; Swipe-out List Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt; Configurations &gt; Location Configurations&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Location Hierarchies. Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Swipe-out menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts as &#39;Deletion of Location Hierarchy is irreversible&#39;. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the policy. Delete Select the required record card. The footer section with action buttons is displayed. Select&nbsp;Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts as &#39;Deletion of Location Hierarchy is irreversible&#39;. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the policy. &nbsp; Field Description Following are the field descriptions of the attributes available on the screen. &nbsp; Field &nbsp; Description &nbsp; Location Hierarchy Specifies the location hierarchy name. Description The description of the hierarchy. Created By Specifies the name of the user who created the location hierarchy. Created Timestamp Specifies the date and time of the creation of the location hierarchy. &nbsp; Action Buttons The following are the action buttons available on the screen. &nbsp; Select All Rows Selects all the rows of records on the screen. Export Exports the list of location hierarchy attributes, and the file will be downloaded onto your system. View&nbsp;Export&nbsp;for more information. Create Opens the&nbsp;Location Hierarchy&nbsp;window.&nbsp; Deselect Clears the selected records. Details Opens the&nbsp;Location Hierarchy&nbsp;window displaying details of the selected record. Edit Opens the&nbsp;Location Hierarchy&nbsp;window for editing the selected record. Delete Deletes the selected record. Expand All The Location Hierarchy Level displays the&nbsp;Level Sequence number and&nbsp;Location Attribute Id as Region, District, and Location Id.&nbsp; Collapse All The&nbsp;Location Hierarchy Level will not display&nbsp;the&nbsp;Level Sequence number and&nbsp;Location Attribute Id.