# Locations

**Permalink:** locations
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning/UI Help/Configurations/Location Configurations/Locations
**Content Length:** 23,641 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:10:33.756462

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning››UI Help››Configurations››Location Configurations ››Locations Locations LocationsCreating a Location RecordEditing a Location RecordDeleting a Location RecordSorting Location DetailsField Description Locations are the channels for selling or storing merchandise. It could be a physical store, distribution center, or virtual e-Commerce. The following attributes are defined for each location: Location Id and details (Status, Allocatable or not) Location Type (DC/Store) Location address and contact details This configuration screen is used to create, edit, update, and delete locations used in allocation. The user can interface these locations and location groups from the host systems and then use these locations for allocation. Filters: Location ID Name Created By Location Status Location Region District Location Type Primary DC Climate Store Size Channel Type Creating a Location Record You can create a new location for its organization using the Location wizard. Location Work Flow To create a new location: Menu > Configurations > Location Configurations > Locations Enter the filter criteria and click Apply. The list pane list the available records. Click Create to view Create Location wizard. The wizard is categorized into different pages. In the Location section, enter the location information such as Location ID, Name, Description, Region, District, Allow Transfer Out,  Location Type, Primary DC, Climate, and Store Size, Activation Date and Deactivation Date. Note: Mandatory fields are denoted with *. Click Save and Continue and move to the Address page. Select the Address section. Enter information for  First Name, Last Name, Address 1, Address 2, Address 3, City, Country, State, Postal Code, Country Code, Phone and E-mail. Select Fulfillment Options section. Select Ship To Address, Ship To Store, Pickup In Store, and Curbside Pickup location attributes for fulfillment options by selecting Yes or No options. The default value of these new attributes is 'No'. Click  Save and Finish. The new location is created. Editing a Location Record You can edit the attributes of the existing location information. Follow the steps. Note: You can edit a location record in 3 different ways, like the swipe-out board, Edit, and Details button. Navigate to Menu > Configurations > Location Configurations > Locations Enter the filter criteria and click Apply. The location records are listed in the pane. Swipe Out List Select the required location record. Swipe-out menu on the required record card and select Edit. In the Edit Location wizard, modify the required fields in the location and address. Click Save and Continue button on each screen to move to the next screen. Click Finish and Save to save the modified location details. Edit View Select the required record card. The action buttons are displayed in the footer section. Click the Edit button to view the Edit Location wizard. Modify the required sections. Click Finish and Save to complete editing location information. Details View Select the required record card. The footer section with action buttons is displayed. Click the Details button to view Location details. Click the Edit button to view the Edit Location wizard. Modify the required sections. Click Finish and Save to complete editing location information. Deleting a Location Record The location records can be deleted by following the steps. Navigate to Menu > Configurations > Location Configurations > Locations Enter the filter criteria and click Apply. The location details are displayed in the list pane. Note: You can delete a location record in 2 different ways, like the Swipe-out board and Delete button. Swipe Out List Swipe-out menu on the required record card and select Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts the location for selection. Click Confirm to delete the record. Delete Select the required record card. The footer section with action buttons is displayed. User is prompted to confirm the record to be deleted. Sorting Location Details The location records can further be sorted based on your requirement. Perform the following: Sort the list using the attributes of location information. By default, the list will be displayed based on the location ID. The drop-down lists the other attributes. Select one to re-list the records based on selection. For example select Location ID, the list will be listed based on the attribute selected. Also, use the  ascending and  descending to sort the list. Field Description Below is the complete list of attributes available in this screen. These fields will be visible when you create/edit/delete location records in the screen The following are the field descriptions of the attributes available on the screen. Field Description Location Location ID Location with which the code is associated. An alphanumeric ID that uniquely defines each location. If it is user-entered and any part of it is alphabetic, it can be entered in upper- or lower-case with the exception of any required Prefix or Suffix defined. Name Short description of this location. A company or business unit cannot have two locations with the same name, however, the location name does not have to be unique across the company’s hierarchical structure. Description The location description. Region The group of geographical locations within the organization. The region or zone (East, West, Northeast, Central) District The group of geographical locations within the organization. The name of the district. Allow Transfer Out Select the following option to allow overstock transfers for a location or not. Yes - It will allow overstock transfer for location. No - It will not allow overstock transfer for location. Latitude The latitude of the location. Based on country and postal code the latitude is fetched from geo component. If provided during interface the value is overridden by the value fetched from geo component. Longitude The longitude of the location. Based on country and postal code the longitude is fetched from geo component. If provided during interface the value is overridden by the value fetched from geo component. Location Type The type of location like Channel, DC, Store, and Vendor. When Channel is selected as location type, Channel Type field displays. Channel Type Used to define allocations of inventory for sectors of the business other than a store, i.e. e-commerce orders, wholesale business, etc. Select the required Channel Type from the drop-down list. The available types are: E-Commerce Retail Wholesales Note: This field appears only when the Location Type is Channel. Primary DC If store, then provide the primary sourcing DC for the store. Climate The climate information for the store catchment. ( for example Hot, Cold, Warm) Store Size The location store size. Activation Date The activation date. Example: 2015-10-28 (ISO Date Format). Only stores with activation date < current date or null participate in the allocation process. Deactivation Date The deactivation date. Example: 2015-10-28 (ISO Date Format). Stores with the deactivation code as null or current date < deactivation date participate in allocation process. Address Information First Name The first name for the contact at the location. Last Name The last name for the contact at the location Address 1 Used to define the address 1 of the location. Address 2 Used to define the address 2 of the location. Address 3 Used to define the address 3 of the location. Country The country portion of the address. Note: Based on the country and postal code, location Latitude and location Longitude values will be displayed. State The state portion of the address. Postal Code Zipcode in address is used to come up with Latitude - Longitude which is used Geo map. Geo component is loaded with required zipcode and lat-long information. All Geos supported. This is used for ship to and ship from addresses while generating orders. Note: Based on the country and postal code, location Latitude and location Longitude values will be displayed. County The geographical region of a country. Phone The phone number for the contact for the location. Fulfillment Options Ship From Store This attribute determines if item shipment is allowed from that store. This Fulfilment type info is used in strategy to specify holdback. Pickup In Store This attribute determines if item pickup is allowed from that store. This Fulfilment type info is used in strategy to specify holdback. Curbside Pickup This attribute determines if Curbside pickup is allowed from that store. This Fulfilment type info is used in strategy to specify holdback. Action Buttons Export Click to export the list of location attributes. The file gets downloaded to your system. See Export for more information. Select All Rows Click this button to select all the records created for the location. Related Links Displays the links to the View Item Locations pages from the current screen. Export Data Loader It allows a user to export the data that is returned from the filter on the UI into a spreadsheet format. All fields will be exported. There is no option to select specific fields to be exported.  Export Data Loader process is asynchronous.   Upon completion of the export, an alert notification will appear on the top right corner of the UI. Import Data Loader It allows a user to import data from a spreadsheet into the system. The user can use the exported spreadsheet as a template for importing new data into the system. When this import data loader button is clicked, the user is presented with a modal where they can choose the file name and the location to upload from.  Upon completion of the import, an alert notification will appear on the top right corner of the UI. Deselect Click this button to clear the selected records. Edit Edit the location records. This button is available in multiple sections of the screen. Read Edit Location details for more information. Details Click this button to navigate to the location wizard to edit the records. Delete Click this button to delete the location records. Expand All It displays the Address, Model Store, and Fulfillment Options attributes. Collapse All It will not display the Address, Model Store, and Fulfillment Options attributes.