# Location Groups

**Permalink:** location-groups
**Content Length:** 10,770 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:43.106190

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Configurations&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Location Configurations ››Location Groups Location Groups &nbsp; &nbsp; Location GroupsCreating Location GroupsEditing Location GroupsDeleting&nbsp; Location Group&nbsp;Field Description Locations are typically grouped by retailers using attributes such as&nbsp;climate, store, and size.&nbsp; The configuration screen is used to view the details&nbsp;of a location group. Location Group can be interfaced from the host systems and then use these locations/location groups for allocation. During allocation, users will select source DC/s and target store/s or store group/s to allocate the merchandise. &nbsp; Filters: The&nbsp;following are the Location filters:&nbsp; Location Group Id Location Group Name Created By &nbsp; Creating Location Groups To create a new location group: &nbsp; Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Configurations&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Location&nbsp;Configurations&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Location Groups Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Click&nbsp;Create&nbsp;to view the&nbsp;Create New Location Groups&nbsp;window. Enter the&nbsp;Location Group Id,&nbsp;Location Group Name,&nbsp;and&nbsp;Description. Click&nbsp;Save and Continue. Click Add New button. The Location Lookup screen displays.&nbsp;Enter the&nbsp;Location Id&nbsp;or click on the search icon to open the&nbsp;Location Lookup&nbsp;window. You can search here for a location by entering&nbsp;Location ID,&nbsp;District,&nbsp;Climate,&nbsp;Name,&nbsp;Store Size,&nbsp;Region,&nbsp;Primary DC, or choosing the&nbsp;Location Type. Select the relevant location from the search results and click&nbsp;Submit. Click Save and Finish. Editing Location Groups To edit a cation group: Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Configurations&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Location&nbsp;Configurations&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Location Groups Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. The location records are listed in the pane. Swipe Out List Select the required location groups record. Swipe-out menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Edit. In the edit location groups wizard, modify the required fields. Click&nbsp;Save and Continue&nbsp;button on each screen to move to the next screen. Click&nbsp;Finish and Save&nbsp;to save the modified location group details. Edit View Select the required record card. The action buttons are displayed in the footer section. Click the&nbsp;Edit&nbsp;button to view the edit location group wizard. Modify the required sections. Click&nbsp;Finish and Save&nbsp;to complete editing location information. Details View Select the required record card. The footer section with action buttons is displayed. Click the&nbsp;Details&nbsp;button to view location groups details. Click the&nbsp;Edit&nbsp;button to view the edit location groups wizard. Modify the required sections. Click&nbsp;Finish and Save&nbsp;to complete editing location groups information. Deleting&nbsp; Location Group&nbsp; The location group&nbsp;records can be deleted by following the steps. &nbsp; Swipe-out List Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Configurations&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Location&nbsp;Configurations&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Location Groups Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Swipe-out menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts as &#39;Deleting LocationGroup might impact Allocation. Deletion of LocationGroup is irreversible&#39;. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the location group. Delete Select the required record card. The footer section with action buttons is displayed. Select&nbsp;Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts as &#39;Deleting LocationGroup might impact Allocation. Deletion of LocationGroup is irreversible&#39;. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the location group. Field Description The following are the field descriptions of the attributes available on the screen. &nbsp; Field Description Location Group ID The Unique Identifier for the location group. Location Group Name The name of the location group. Description The description of the location group. Location Count Displays the count of locations in the location group. Action Buttons Details Click this button to view the Location Groups Details screen. This screen is non-editable. Export Click to export the list of location groups with attributes. The file gets downloaded to your system. See Export for more information. Create Opens the&nbsp;Create Location Groups&nbsp;window.&nbsp; Export Data Loader It&nbsp;allows a user to export the data that is returned from the filter on the UI into a spreadsheet format. All fields will be exported. There is no option to select specific fields to be exported.&nbsp;Export Data Loader process is asynchronous. Upon completion of the export, an alert notification will appear on the&nbsp;top right corner of the UI. Import Data Loader It allows a user to import data from a spreadsheet into the system.&nbsp;The user can use the exported spreadsheet as a template for importing new data into the system.&nbsp; When this import data loader button is clicked, the user is presented with a modal where they can choose the file name and the location to upload from.&nbsp;&nbsp; Upon completion of the import,&nbsp;an alert notification will appear on the top right corner of the UI.&nbsp; Select All Rows&nbsp; Select all the records created for the location groups. Deselect Clear the selected records. Expand All The Location List displays the Location ID and Location Name attributes. Collapse All The Location List will not display the Location ID and Location Name attributes.