# Location Priority Schedule

**Permalink:** location-priority-schedule
**Content Length:** 11,491 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:40.808352

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Configurations&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Item Location ››Location Priority Schedule Location Priority Schedule &nbsp; &nbsp; Location Priority ScheduleCreating a Location Priority ScheduleEditing a Location Priority ScheduleDeleting a Location Priority ScheduleField DescriptionAction Buttons A location priority schedule allows a user to&nbsp;prioritize the allocation&nbsp;of an item&nbsp;by location priority values before the allocation logic goes into the next step of prioritization by other criteria such as grade, minimum, and need. When the Location Priority Schedule is configured and &#39;Prioritize Higher Margin Locations&#39; is selected from Allocation Strategy UI, the system will try to first allocate the item to&nbsp;stores that sell it&nbsp;for a higher margin. The user can specify &#39;Ascending&#39;&nbsp;or &#39;Descending&#39;&nbsp;in the &#39;locationPrioritySortOrder&#39; configuration. The default value is &quot;Ascending&quot;, which means locations with the lower priority values are allocated first.&nbsp;&nbsp;If the sort order is configured as&nbsp;descending, then the&nbsp;higher priority values are allocated first. &nbsp; The priority value in Location Priority Schedule stores a numerical value that contributes to the item overall margin such as a markdown percentage or a markup percentage. The type of information that is stored in the priority value and the sort order must be decided up front for the whole organization: Sort ascending for the lowest markdown to be interpreted as the highest margin (e.g., 10% markdown is higher margin than 20% markdown) Sort descending for the highest markup to be interpreted as the highest margin (e.g., 20% markup is higher margin than 10% markup). If desired, the user can also specify a global threshold configuration to stop allocating an item to&nbsp;certain locations when the threshold is exceeded. For ascending sorting order, the threshold is a maximum threshold.&nbsp; For descending order, this threshold is a minimum threshold. For instance, if the sort order is ascending with a markdown threshold of 50%,&nbsp;and the location has a markdown% that is more than or equal to 50%, then do not allocate this item to that location. On the other hand, if the sort order is descending with a markup threshold of 50%, and the location has a markup% that is less than or equal 50%, then do not allocate this item to that location. &nbsp; This functionality replaces the previous functionality where&nbsp;the allocation engine stops allocating an item to&nbsp;any location with a&nbsp;markdown (&gt;&nbsp;0%). &nbsp; Filters The following is the list of filters available on this screen: &nbsp; Color Effective Date Location Item Style Creating a Location Priority Schedule To create a new Location Priority Schedule: Select&nbsp;Menu &gt; Configurations &gt; Item Location &gt; Location Priority Schedule Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Click&nbsp;Create&nbsp;to view the Location Priority Schedule&nbsp;window. &nbsp;a. Enter the unique identifier of the Item&nbsp;or&nbsp;click on the search icon to open&nbsp;the Item lookup window&nbsp;or&nbsp;b. Enter the Style of the item or click on the search icon to open the Item lookup window and enter the Color of the item. Enter the&nbsp;unique identifier of the Location or click on the search icon to open the Location Lookup window. Enter the Effective Date.&nbsp;This is the beginning date of the corresponding priority value. Enter the Priority Value that&nbsp;is associated with the item location for prioritizing location during allocation.&nbsp; &nbsp; Editing a Location Priority Schedule You can edit the location priority value&nbsp;of an&nbsp;existing location priority schedule records. Swipe-out List Select&nbsp;Menu &gt; Configurations &gt; Item Location &gt; Location Priority Schedule Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Select the required store record. Swipe-out the menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Edit. In the&nbsp;Location Priority Schedule&nbsp;window, modify the required fields.&nbsp; Click&nbsp;Save&nbsp;to save the modified record details. Edit View Select the required location priority schedule&nbsp;record card. The action buttons are displayed in the footer section. Click&nbsp;Edit&nbsp;to view the&nbsp;Location Priority Schedule&nbsp;window, and modify the required fields. Click&nbsp;Save&nbsp;to save the modified&nbsp;record details. Deleting a Location Priority Schedule The location priority schedule records can be deleted by following one of the below procedures: Swipe-out List Select&nbsp;Menu &gt; Configurations &gt; Item Location &gt; Location Priority Schedule Swipe-out the menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts as &#39;Deletion of location priority schedule is irreversible&#39;. Click &#39;Yes&#39; to delete the location priority schedule&nbsp;record. Delete Select the required record card. The footer section with action buttons is displayed. Select&nbsp;Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts as &#39;Deletion of location priority schedule is irreversible&#39;. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the location priority schedule&nbsp;record. Field Description The following are the field descriptions of the attributes available on the screen. &nbsp; Field Description Item The unique identifier of the item. This field will be used for&nbsp;a non-style item (style is null). &nbsp; Note:&nbsp; Specify either Item or Style attributes but not both. Location The unique identifier of the location.&nbsp;This field is mandatory. Style The style of the item. This field will be used for a style item. &nbsp; Note:&nbsp;Specify either Item or Style attributes but not both. Effective Date The effective begin date of the corresponding priority value. This field is mandatory. Color The color of the item. This field will be used for a style item with color. Priority Value The sort value is associated with the item location for prioritizing allocation. During allocation, these values will be sorted in ascending or descending order based on the configuration. This field is mandatory. &nbsp; Action Buttons Following are the action buttons available on the screen. &nbsp; Select All Rows Selects all the rows of records on the screen. Export Exports the list of location priority schedule attributes, and the file will be downloaded onto your system. View&nbsp;Export&nbsp;for more information. Create Opens the&nbsp;Location Priority Schedule&nbsp;window.&nbsp; Deselect Clears the selected records. Edit Opens the relevant&nbsp;Location Priority Schedule&nbsp;window. Delete Deletes the selected record.