# Lost Sales for Forecasting 

**Permalink:** lost-sales-for-forecasting
**Content Length:** 19,223 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:37:24.186452

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process &amp; Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Demand Forecasting ››Lost Sales for Forecasting Lost Sales &nbsp; Previous&nbsp;I&nbsp;Next OverviewInterfaced Lost SalesEstimated Lost SalesOut of Stock Point&nbsp;Lost Sales Adjustment FactorProcess FlowHow to configure the&nbsp;system to use estimated lost salesEnable Estimated Lost Sales CalculationSet Lost Sales TypeConfigure Out of Stock PointAdjust Lost Sales with Adjustment FactorAPI ConfigurationsRelated Articles Overview Lost sales occur when a business misses the chance to sell a product, often due to stockouts. Recognizing and estimating these missed sales opportunities is crucial for accurate sales forecasting, enabling businesses to plan better inventory positions for the future. There are two methods for incorporating lost sales into forecast calculations. Item locations can use either Interfaced Lost Sales or Estimated Lost Sales, depending on the configuration, but not both. Interfaced Lost Sales Interfaced lost sales require manual input and daily updates, but errors, whether system- or human-induced, can result in overstated values. Using estimated lost sales is a simpler and more reliable alternative. Estimated Lost Sales Estimated lost sales are calculated by the system in real-time when properly configured (by selecting the 'ESTIMATED' option under Lost Sales Type). It uses preset conditions like the 'Lost Sales Adjustment Factor' and the 'Out of Stock Point' to provide more accurate figures. Out of Stock Point&nbsp; This is the amount of on-hand inventory below which the item location is considered out of stock. The default value for the Out of Stock Point is 0. Lost Sales Adjustment Factor &nbsp;This is a weight applied to the estimated (calculated) sales lost for each day the on-hand inventory of the product location was below the Out of Stock Point. The default value is 1. For example: &lt; 1 – Less than a day’s demand lost = 1 – One day’s demand lost &gt; 1 – More than a day’s demand lost Process Flow The forecast engine generates forecast values using the cleansed sales metric, which is derived from the sum of sales and lost sales (interfaced or estimated) minus promo sales. The picture above illustrates the direct impact of incorporating lost sales into the forecast calculation. Benefits of Estimated Lost Sales By considering actual sales and inventory levels, the system provides a clearer picture of lost sales. This accuracy enhances forecasting, enabling businesses to make informed decisions about inventory and sales strategies. Switching from interfaced to automated estimated lost sales simplifies forecasting, improves accuracy, and helps businesses better plan inventory to meet customer demand. How to configure the&nbsp;system to use estimated lost sales Navigate to either the Item Inheritance Policy UI or the Item Location UI to set up estimated lost sales for forecasting. Enable Estimated Lost Sales Calculation In the Life Cycle Configuration settings on either of these UIs, enable the option to calculate estimated lost sales. Note: In the system's configuration hierarchy, settings defined in the Item Location UI take precedence over those in the Item Inheritance Policy. If certain configurations are missing or left blank in the Item Location UI, the system will automatically inherit the corresponding settings from the Item Inheritance Policy. Set Lost Sales Type In the Lost Sales Type dropdown menu, select ESTIMATED. Configure Out of Stock Point Define the Out of Stock Point by setting a specific quantity value. When on-hand units equal or fall below this quantity, the system begins calculating estimated lost sales. If on-hand inventory exceeds this point, the generation of estimated lost sales values stops. Adjust Lost Sales with Adjustment Factor Optionally, apply the Lost Sales Adjustment Factor to adjust the estimated lost sales quantity. Acceptable values range from 0.1 to 1000, with 1 as the default (normal) value. Values less than 1 decrease the estimated lost sales quantity, while values greater than 1 increase it. Therefore, the user can configure the system as described above to use the estimated lost sales functionality and improve forecast accuracy. API Configurations API for storing Interfaced&nbsp;lost sales at item location:- Stored Interfaced lost sales{{url}}/ai-demandmetrics/api/ai-demandmetrics/metric { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;Data&quot;: [ &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ItemId&quot;: &quot;{{ItemId1}}{{Suffix}}&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;LocationId&quot;: &quot;{{StoreLocId1}}{{Suffix}}&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;MetricTypeId&quot;: &quot;InterfacedLostSales&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; //&quot;SystemGroupingKey&quot;: &quot;Sales Metric Group&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;LastModifiedDateTime&quot;: null, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;MetricValues&quot;: { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;2020-11-08&quot;: 3269.0 &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; } &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; } &nbsp; &nbsp; ] } &nbsp; API for search saved Interfaced lost sales at item location:- Saved Interfaced lost sales{{url}}/ai-demandmetrics/api/ai-demandmetrics/metric/search { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ItemIds&quot;:[&quot;{{ItemId1}}{{Suffix}}&quot;], &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;LocationIds&quot;:[&quot;{{StoreLocId1}}{{Suffix}}&quot;], &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;StartDate&quot;: &quot;2020-01-01&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;EndDate&quot;: &quot;2020-11-30&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;MetricTypeId&quot;: &quot;InterfacedLostSales&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;RangeFunction&quot; : { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;RangeDays&quot;: 7, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;XFunction&quot;: &quot;Sum&quot; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; } } &nbsp; API for search saved Estimated lost sales at item location:- Saved Estimated Lost Sales {{url}}/ai-demandmetrics/api/ai-demandmetrics/metric/search { &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&quot;ItemIds&quot;:[&quot;{{ItemId1}}&quot;], &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&quot;LocationIds&quot;:[&quot;{{StoreLocId1}}&quot;], &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&quot;StartDate&quot;: &quot;2020-12-01&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&quot;EndDate&quot;: &quot;2020-12-31&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&quot;MetricTypeId&quot;: &quot;EstimatedLostSale&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;RangeFunction&quot; : { &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;RangeDays&quot;: 7, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;XFunction&quot;: &quot;Sum&quot; &nbsp; &nbsp; } } &nbsp; Related Articles Demand ForecastingDay of Week ProfileDemand Classification &amp; CleansingSeasonal ProfilingForecast AnalysisForecast Assignment CriteriaExclusions RulesForecast UpdateNew Item Location Auto-AssociatonAggregated Seasonal Profile Future Forecast AdjustmentsManual Forecast ChangeForecast SummaryForecast InitializationForecast Exceptions &nbsp;