# Luxembourg

**Permalink:** luxembourg
**Content Length:** 5,745 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:35:53.256559

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Point of Sale&rsaquo;&rsaquo;POS Classic Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;POS Classic Fiscalization and Globalization ››Luxembourg &nbsp;Luxembourg OverviewTax ConfigurationReceipt ConfigurationServices Overview Luxembourg&#39;s main state institution engaged in economic and tax topics is the Registration, Domain and VAT Administration (AED).Regarding fiscalization rules, currently* there are no specific laws or other regulations specifically dedicated to the topic. However, the way of handling transactions and issuing receipts can be concluded from the explanations provided below. Language:&nbsp;Luxembourgish is legally the only national language of the Luxembourgish people. However, French and German are also used in administrative and judicial matters and all three are considered administrative languages of the country. Although there are no explicit legal requirements, it is assumed that the POS application should support one of these languages, but English mode can be implemented, as well. As per the receipts themselves, it is also expected that they are presented in one of these languages, but English could be an addition. If the receipt is prepared in another language (e.g. English) the authorities can request a translation. The locale can be configured as detailed in the localization configuration guide. Currency:&nbsp;The official currency of Luxembourg is &quot;EURO&quot;. The official currency code (ISO currency standard) is &quot;EUR&quot;.&nbsp; The currency denomination can be configured as detailed in the localization configuration guide. Tax Configuration Value Added Tax (VAT) is a tax on sales. The VAT payer, who must previously register for VAT with the Tax Administration (AED), charges his customers a tax proportional to the price of the goods sold&nbsp;for the services rendered. This tax must be paid by the taxpayer to the AED after deduction of the VAT charged to him by his own suppliers (input tax). Natural or legal persons are subject to VAT if they independently and regularly carry out an economic activity of any kind, regardless of the purpose or the results of this activity and the place of execution. Persons established in Luxembourg who take up a taxable activity and assume that their annual turn-over exceeds 35,000* euros have to register for VAT. VAT&nbsp;Rates*: VAT rates are categorized into buckets below. Standard/Normal tax rate 17% Average tax rate: 14&nbsp;% Reduced tax&nbsp;rate: 8% Super reduced tax&nbsp;rate: 3% * The fiscal guidelines and numbers (annual turn over, tax rates)&nbsp;are as of March-2023, which might be subjected to change as per local laws. VAT Tax Configuration:&nbsp;The information about configuring the country&nbsp;as VAT is&nbsp;detailed in the localization configuration guide. Receipt Configuration A receipt is a conclusive document that confirms that payment has been made for a service/goods.&nbsp;A generated receipt needs to include: Company information Date and time of issue Total amount paid Unique and sequential numbering VAT breakdown Additionally, best practice is also to include items. All additional information such as pictures, barcodes, QR codes, promotional messages, etc. can be included as there are no legal requirements. Receipt Configuration: Configuring receipts specific for a country&nbsp;is&nbsp;detailed in the localization configuration guide. Services There are no specific services exposed for Luxembourg localization.