# Manager Override & Routing Process

**Permalink:** manageroverrideandrouting-process
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Store/Process & Configuration Guides/Point of Sale/POS Classic Guides/POS Order Selling/Other/Transaction Support/Manager Override & Routing/Process
**Content Length:** 30,563 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:02:55.317540

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Store››Process & Configuration Guides››Point of Sale››POS Classic Guides››POS Order Selling››Other/Transaction Support››Manager Override & Routing ››Manager Override & Routing Process Manager Override and Routing Process Manager Override ProcessManager Routing, Check and forward ProcessCheck and Forward ServiceManager override threshold processPOS Item/transaction discount thresholdAbility to capture Manager Override information on EJProcess Flow to capture manager override details on Order and EJ Configuration Services Manager Override Process POS flows have certain functions or features which require special permissions to perform a desired action. These functionalities are captured as override resources, only users with these specific override grants will be allowed to perform these actions.  If any user who does not have these grants performs these specific actions, would see a pop-up that prompts to enter username and pin. These credentials are from the user with this special permission/grants.  System validates these credentials (username and pin), if valid will allow the user to perform the desired action. Manager Routing, Check and forward Process The manager override functionality is required to use the "check and forward" service to make a call to the destination URL to perform the action. UI cannot call the destination URL directly for manager override (special permission) functionality. A typical manager override UI workflow can be achieved differently for different feature/functionality across the POS application, but can be generalized with below steps. UI validates the ui resourceid for the logged in user (which is already downloaded as part of POS Static data) to display the button/label/field. While performing the action, ui checks if the action requires a special permission, if yes, then would check the user has the corresponding override access permission. If yes, it will proceed to perform the action if not then it will ask for user and pin to authenticate this action. When the credentials are provided, UI can call the 'check and forward' service. Check and Forward Service Following are the different variations of check and forward workflows for different functionalities. These variations of the check and forward service is to serve the different ui workflows and to ease the user experience. Check and forward - regular payload This is used for functionality with no extra user data. For example: Item void, transaction void, voiding return fee. The data is already in the cart and user just needs to check for user's permission and forward the call to destination to perform the action. Check and forward - payload with user data This is used for functionality where user is required to input data and then perform the action. For example: Item/transaction discount or tax override where user need to enter the amount to be discounted ot tax to be overridden and then make a check and forward call. Check only mode followed by check and forward (with payload) This workflow is split into 2 steps for better user experience. For example: In add customer screen store associate captures various data, if the check and forward service validation fails the data entered by the store associate is lost. So, to have a better user experience before capturing data check and forward service is called in check only mode to validate the user. Once the user is valid only then the add customer screen is loaded. This saves time and saves store associates time. Manager override threshold process POS Item/transaction discount threshold In addition to the above, Manager override functionality can also have controlled via role based threshold configurations.  Item and/or transaction discounts thresholds can be configured at user role level. This threshold or cap is always configured in percent - i.e., 50% cap - the back end calculate the corresponding amount threshold based on item price. Any logged in user with ui and override grant can perform the operation.  If they are additionally associated to a Discount threshold, they can perform the operation up to but not above the configured threshold. For example, assume for Item discounts the cap for POS Store Associate role is 10% and for POS Store Manager role it is 30%.   Assuming that these are the only 2 thresholds configured, a POS Store Associate user can give up to 10% discount.  If they attempt 11% or more (or some amount that equates to 11% or more such as 2.00 off 10.00 item) they will not be able to complete the action unless the credentials of a POS Store Manager are provided.  Above 30% no one can approve the discount, in this example. The threshold cap determination is based on the cumulative value of each discount type - for a 10.00 item, a 5% item discount followed by a 1.00 item discount would cumulatively equate to 15%, for override threshold purposes, and the 1.00 second discount would not be allowed for POS Store Associate without POS Store Manager approval. Check more details on the threshold process flow: The threshold cap determination is based on the cumulative value of each discount type - for a 10.00 item, a 5% item discount followed by a 1.00 item discount would cumulatively equate to 15%, for override threshold purposes, and the 1.00 second discount would not be allowed for POS Store Associate without POS Store Manager approval. The threshold process is available for item and transaction discounts i.e. item and transaction discount (by percentage or amount). Users can configure a threshold for each role.  Each role can have only one threshold configured at item and transaction levels. As noted, the threshold cap is enforced based on configured threshold percent.  User cannot configure a discount threshold as amount. Existing check and forward service is enhanced to support role-based thresholds. If a logged in user is applying discount more than the threshold then pop-up screen is displayed with 2 options Option 1: Retry - This will take to previous apply discount screen, user can entry less than available threshold. Option 2: Override - This will open override pop-up screen with user and pin (who has higher threshold) who can override to the enter amount. Manage Order Configurations > Threshold Discount Configuration with Charge Type ID = Discount is evaluated first for maximum percentage and number of header and line discount that can be allowed on the transaction. The above POS threshold is evaluated later. Read more here Ability to capture Manager Override information on EJ When an action is performed through override action, it is required to persist the same on order schema and display it on Electronic Journal. Information that is captured on the order, but not limited to Order ID, Order Line ID, action performed using manager override, status of the action, manager/user authorizing the action. This captured in the following cases: Manager override completed successfully in Check only mode. Manager override in check and forward mode.  Both success and failed attempts. New features enabled with manager override make it to EJ automatically. Following manager override actions to not make it to Order schema and EJ: Failed manager override authentication in check only mode with no order ID. Canceled manager override actions. For example, Select Price override > Enter manager auth details > Click Cancel.  This information gets lost. No back-office, clienteling, re-print receipt manager override actions are captured on EJ. Anything that is not part of order publishing does not capture manager auth details into database. Additional Information: If user disables EJ for a manager override enabled action, the manager auth details can still be captured and displayed on EJ.  Example: Price override can be disabled from being shown in EJ, but manager auth for price override can still be displayed. If ejModType is removed for manager override, manager auth details is still gets persisted in Order. However, It does not display on EJ. Required configuration for EJ can be found here. Process Flow to capture manager override details on Order and EJ Configuration Services The configuration mentioned in this document, with config-UIs if they are available, are listed in the table below, along with information to navigate to the API documentation. Service Component Group Service Endpoint Manager Override Routing Service posservice Manager Override Routing controller posservice/api/posservice/managerOverrideRouting Override Threshold Header Service posservice Override Threshold Header controller posservice/api/posservice/OverrideThresholdHeader