# Manage Orders

**Permalink:** manage-orders
**Content Length:** 7,597 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:33:42.279139

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Digital Self-Service ››Manage Orders Manage Orders&nbsp;in Digital Self-Service OverviewManage Orders UICustomizing for your BrandConfigurationFeature ScopeHow to Test Overview In Digital Self-Service, customers can view and manage orders&nbsp;placed in&nbsp;any channel (e-commerce, call center, point of sale)&nbsp;and fulfilled in any delivery method (ship to home, buy online pick up in&nbsp;store (BOPIS), ship to store).&nbsp; Customers can initiate the self-service manage orders page in a few different ways. One is via the link provided in a transactional&nbsp;email, such as the shipment confirmation email and pickup reminder email. Another is if the retailer provides a link to manage orders&nbsp;in the customer&rsquo;s My Account page in e-commerce. A third way to initiate the flow is if the retailer offers a link in e-commerce to manage a single order, even for customers who are not logged in. For registered customers, customers can view all orders associated with the customer ID of the given order (example,&nbsp;if the link is provided in a customer email for a specific order), in created date order, descending. For unregistered customers, customers can view the single order details. For each order displayed, DSS shows high level order details and status, as well as available DSS modifications, according to the retailer&#39;s unique modification type configuration and feature configuration.&nbsp; Manage Orders UI When the Manage Orders page is loaded, Digital Self Service calls the order component to retrieve the order details and available order modification types. The modification types are defined in the Order Configuration UI, and more details about them can be found here.&nbsp; If any of the order lines are shipped, an additional call is made to the parcel component to get the real-time shipment or delivery status of the fulfillment. If the parcel call fails, DSS simply shows the latest order line status. The Manage Orders page displays each order present in Manhattan&nbsp;Active&reg; Omni for that customer, or displays an individual order (if no Customer ID exists on the order). Each order displays high level details of: Order ID Order Total Order Placed Date Order Status Then, the order items are grouped by status and shipment. For example, if there are multiple shipments on an order, the DSS page will display each shipment and expected delivery date (as provided by the carrier). Available modification types that can be displayed for order lines with delivery method of Ship to Address: Order Cancel Change Shipping Address Track shipment Create Return Track Return Available modification types that can be displayed for order lines with delivery method of Pick up at Store or Ship to Store: Order Cancel Ship it Instead Add Alternate Pickup Person Extend Pickup Window On My Way Determining Item Eligibility Items are deemed eligible or ineligible for cancellation based on a few factors: If an item is cancelled or requested for cancellation (&quot;CancellationRequestStatus&quot; is not null) An item must be in a status eligible for cancellation based on the restrictFromStatus defined in the Order Configuration UI. If a line is post-released, the item is only eligible for cancellation if the above criteria are met and &#39;Allow post-release cancellation&#39; is enabled in the Order Configuration UI. The eligible mod types API is used by DSS to determine if an order line is eligible or ineligible for cancellation. If the OrderLine::Cancel mod type is listed in the OrderLinePermittedModTypes, then a line is eligible for cancellation. The eligible mod types API uses the logic described above to determine item eligibility.&nbsp; Customizing for your Brand Digital Self-Service can be customized to reflect the look and feel of an individual brand. See the&nbsp;UI Theming & Customization Guide&nbsp;for information on how the logo, fonts, colors, and labels can be customized. Configuration The following configuration is required. See below for more details. Configure your organization and user to be used for authentication - see the&nbsp;Authentication Guide&nbsp;for detailed steps.&nbsp;This only needs to be done once per organization, so no action is required if it&#39;s already been done. Enable shipment confirmation and/or pickup reminder&nbsp;emails if required. See the&nbsp;Transactional Emails&nbsp;guide. Feature Scope The following is not supported: Display of orders based on customer criteria other than customer ID. A maximum of 10 items are displayed on the DSS status&nbsp;group. If more than 10 items exist, then the UI displays &quot;+X items&quot; to denote the items which are not displayed. Display of archived orders. How to Test Create an order. Navigate to the Manage Orders URL directly by forming the URL in your browser, or launch the page from an email such as &#39;Ready for Pickup&#39;. Select the desired options. &nbsp;