# Managing High Utilization Locations

**Permalink:** managing-high-utilization-locations
**Content Length:** 6,818 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:33:38.263275

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Enterprise Inventory&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Capacity Management ››Managing High Utilization Locations Managing High Utilization Locations Previous | Next &nbsp; OverviewProcess FlowConfigurationEnabling High Utilization for a LocationImplementation FlavorsRelated Articles Overview Unlike stores, typically high utilization locations like a DC/Warehouse operates with infinite capacity. But during peak period, retailers may want to balance the workload of their DC/Warehouse locations so that one particular DC doesn&#39;t take the majority of the load. Consider an example, where majority of the orders originates from the east coast. Usually these orders are diverted to the DC close to east coast. But during peak period, East coast DC might be able to fulfill only X Orders/hour. In order to balance the workload, retailer would like to divert few of these orders to west coast DC in order to ease the workload on the east coast DC. To balance the workload, retailers would define the maximum capacity for their DC or High utilization locations similar to their store location(s). For high utilization locations - Utilization type should be set to &quot;High Volume&quot;. Refer How to configure Capacity for a Location for details. For High volume location - Capacity utilization details are staged before rolling up to Location Capacity Utilization. This is done to handle issues that may arise because of high volumes. As part of Allocation, De-allocation, Shipment and Shorts - a new entry is inserted into the staging with the back log and capacity utilized. A listener picks up the details and rolls up the updates to the location Capacity Utilization. Rolled entries are deleted from the staging entity. Note: Location Type - &quot;DistributionCenters&quot; are always considered as High Utilization Process Flow Configuration Enabling High Utilization for a Location This is defined in&nbsp;the Inventory Location UI. Utilization TypeUtilization Type defines if&nbsp;the location is a high volume or low volume location. This is not a mandatory attribute.&nbsp; Location Type &quot;Distribution Centers&quot; - Always treated as High Volume.&nbsp;When utilization type is not set then it is treated as High&nbsp;Volume. There is no support for Low Volume utilization level. Location Type &quot;Store/Supplier/Others&quot; - Can be configured as High volume or Low Volume. When utilization type is not set then it is treated as Low Volume. For High volume location - capacity utilization details are staged before updating the location Capacity Utilization. This is done to take care of large volume of orders updating the capacity information. Implementation Flavors N/A Related Articles Capacity as a Constraint & OptimizationRolling Capacity to the Next Day/ShiftHow Capacity WorksRest APIs & User ExitsOverviewReleasing Capacity &nbsp;