# Fulfillment Progress Configuration

**Permalink:** manager-dashboard-configuration
**Content Length:** 10,503 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:36:07.555394

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Inventory & Fulfillment&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Order Fulfillment&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Fulfillment Progress ››Fulfillment Progress Configuration Fulfillment Progress Configuration Time ZoneConfigurable Store DisplayAt Risk ConfigurationPickupsShipmentsNo Show ConfigurationReturn to Shelf ConfigurationUnit Level InformationAutomatic Refresh Interval ConfigurationUIs and Entities Time Zone Fulfillment Progress&nbsp;shows store information for the current date based on the store's time zone (12:00 AM - 11:59 PM.) The store's time zone is configured in the Location Time Zone attribute of the Locations UI. Configurable Store Display The Fulfillment Progress screen&nbsp;can display either LocationId, DisplayId or LocationName&nbsp;attribute of the Location entity as store. This&nbsp;can be configured in the "Store Display Field" in the&nbsp;Store Common Configuration UI. The default value for the configuration&nbsp;is LocationId. If &nbsp;"Store Display Field" is set to 'LocationName" and LocationName is not populated on the Location, then the system will fall back to display LocationId as store. At Risk Configuration Pickups The configuration 'Minutes before the delivery date, the pickup orders are assessed as risk' on the Store&nbsp;Fulfillment Configuration UI&nbsp;is used to evaluate the at-risk&nbsp;condition for pickup orders. This is defaulted&nbsp;at 30 minutes. This means that any pickup order which is not fulfilled 30 minutes before its pickupDue (deliveryDueDate field on fulfillment) is evaluated as at risk.&nbsp;The configured time&nbsp;must be set to the average time required to pick the typical volume of pickup orders. To prevent the At Risk label from showing, set the configured time to be a large negative value, such as "-99999999". Shipments The configuration 'Minutes before shipping date, the shipment orders are assessed as risk'&nbsp;on the Store&nbsp;Fulfillment Configuration UI&nbsp;is used to evaluate the at-risk condition for shipment orders. This is set to 120 min&nbsp;by default. This means that any shipment order which is not fulfilled 120 min&nbsp;before its shipping is due (ShippingDueDate field on fulfillment) is evaluated as at risk. The configured time should be set to the average time required to pick and pack the typical volume of shipment orders.&nbsp;To prevent the At Risk label from showing, set the configured time to be a large negative value, such as "-99999999". For example, consider that the above configuration is set&nbsp;to&nbsp;60 minutes. If&nbsp;a shipment order&nbsp;has ShippingDueDate&nbsp;as 5 pm today and has not been fulfilled, then at 4:01 pm, if the fulfillment is still not fulfilled, it will be considered as "At Risk". Note: &nbsp;If Manhattan Order Management is used , the ShippingDueDate and DeliveryDuedate on fulfillment, are propagated&nbsp;from the dates on the Release object from OM. ShippingDueDate=Minimum of&nbsp;&nbsp;LatestShipDate&nbsp;on Release lines. If the LatestShipDate is null, it is calculated from the&nbsp;EarliestShipDate. DeliveryDueDate = Minimum of LastestDeliveryDate on&nbsp;Release lines. If the latestDeliveryDate is null, it is calculated from the EarliestDeliveryDate. Refer toOrder Scheduling process guide for the calculation on Release lines. No Show Configuration The configuration 'Maximum number of days allowed for customer to pick up an order'&nbsp;on the Store Fulfillment Configuration UI is used to configure the number of days a pickup order is kept ready for customer to pick up. When an order is ready for&nbsp;pickup, the pickup expiry date is stamped on the pickup by adding defined number of days to the pick completion time. When the current time is past the pickup expiry date, pickup will be considered as "No Show". The default value of this configuration is '5 days'. Return to Shelf Configuration The configuration Enable Return to Shelf On&nbsp;on the Store Fulfillment Parameter UI is used to enable the Return to Shelf feature. If the feature is enabled, then the Return to Shelf metric will be displayed on the Fulfillment Progress.&nbsp;Refer to the Return to Shelf&nbsp;Configuration&nbsp;guide for more information. Unit Level Information The configuration 'Include units along with orders in manager dashboard'&nbsp;on the Store Fulfillment Parameter UI displays&nbsp;unit level information in Fulfillment Progress. If the configuration is enabled, then the unit&nbsp;level information is shown in the Pickups and&nbsp;Shipments Activity section. Note: When unit level information is shown on the Fulfillment Progress, at risk breakup isn't displayed. However, the API services still provide this information. Automatic Refresh Interval Configuration The configuration&nbsp;Refresh interval in seconds for monitoring screens that automatically reload&nbsp;on the Store Fulfillment Parameter UI is used to configure the frequency of&nbsp;automatic refresh of the dashboard. A value of less than 180 seconds or no value is treated as 180 seconds. The refresh interval time starts from the instance when the dashboard was loaded or refreshed (automatic and manual).&nbsp;To stop automatic refreshing of the dashboard, a value of 0 should be used. A manual refresh option is always available on the dashboard&nbsp;to reload data anytime. UIs and Entities The configuration UIs mentioned in this document are listed&nbsp;in the following table,&nbsp;along with information to&nbsp;navigate&nbsp;to the API documentation. UI Name Component Group Seed Data Present? Seed data profile Locations Organization Location services No N/a Store Fulfillment Configuration Fulfillment FulfillmentConfiguration&nbsp;services Yes Base Store Fulfillment Parameter Fulfillment FulfillmentParameters Services Yes Base