# Manage Availability

**Permalink:** manage-availability
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Order Management/UI Help/Enterprise Inventory/Available to Commerce/Manage Availability
**Content Length:** 28,749 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:59:22.958421

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Order Management››UI Help››Enterprise Inventory››Available to Commerce ››Manage Availability Manage Availability The Manage Availability user interface provides access to define inventory that is made available to commerce. The order capture system(s) uses the availability to determine whether inventory is available for sale. After the order is captured, the same availability picture is used for order sourcing and order allocation. The advantage to use a central availability picture is to improve customer service and minimize back orders. Commerce View ExplainedCreate a Commerce ViewRename Existing Commerce ViewDelete a Commerce ViewSearch Inventory for Active Commerce ViewLocation level Commerce ViewNetwork-level Commerce ViewAvailability By Customer Commerce View Explained Commerce View is a set of rules and configurations that calculate inventory available to commerce. The order capture system determines whether to create/process orders, based on the inventory availability picture. Each time an inventory event comes into the system, it finds a matching active view(s) based on the scope definition; once it passes the scope definition, this inventory is available/added to the view as eligible inventory. Typically, in a single system deployment, users define multiple commerce views for each order capture system. For a given deployment, 60 commerce views can be active for maintaining availability for different order capture systems. Within each commerce view, you may have multiple configurations to support the change in availability rules for different seasons, quarters and promotional periods. Within each configuration, multiple rule sets are defined for different fulfillment locations such as Distribution Center (DC), Stores, Suppliers, and others. Regional availability helps determine available inventory based on order characteristics. Additionally, you can define exclusion rules for capacity, commerce valuation, and inventory protection which are specified within a rule set. There are two types of commerce views: Location-level View (Location): The location-level commerce view is created if the order capture system requires the inventory availability at each individual location. For example, if an Ecommerce system requires the availability at each individual store, the Pick Up in Store View is created. Therefore, the inventory availability is calculated by facility. Network-level View (Network): The network-level commerce view is created if the order capture system requires an aggregate or network-level availability. For example, if an Ecommerce system requires the availability across all eligible facilities, the Ship to Home View is created. Therefore, the inventory availability is calculated by network. Create a Commerce View This procedure covers creation of a commerce view with one configuration, consisting of a rule set that defines general availability, regional availability, and availability status. Note: You must define at least one location, item, and supply type for each rule set. Commerce characteristics, protection, and capacity is optional. Click Menu > Enterprise Inventory > Available to commerce  > Manage Availability. Click  Add new View to view the Add Commerce view pop-up. Enter a View Name and select Network or Location from the View Type drop-down list. Click Add. The new commerce view tile is displayed in the Manage Availability page. Add new configuration for the created commerce view: Hover the mouse over the tile and click (image) Add new configuration. Enter the configuration name in the Add configuration dialog box. Click Add to create a new configuration for commerce view Define the General Availability, Regional Availability and Availability Status for the new configuration created. The General Availability tab defines the rules used to build the availability inventory for the commerce view. Select any of the facility types (Distributed Center, Stores, Suppliers and Others). Enter the rule name in the text box and Click Save rule set name. Click Add Rule Set to create another for the selected facility type. Define Locations, Items, supply types, commerce characteristics and Protection and capacity for the rule set created. Click the Location tab and define the following: Distribution Center, DC Type, Segmented, Shipping Enabled, Reference Field, Reference Number, and Accepts Returns. Click  Save Click the Items tab and define the following: Items, Brands, Categories, Style, Sold Online, Sold in Stores, Protection level, Size, Color, Season, Season year, Item reference ID and Item Reference Number. Click Save. Click Supply Types and define the following: Segments, Country of origin, Batch Number, Product Status, Inventory Type, Inventory Attribute, Items, Brands, Categories, Style, Sold Online, Sold in Stores, Protection level, Size, Color, Season, Season year, Item reference ID, Item Reference Number and Gift Card type. Click  Save. Click Commerce Characteristics and define the following: Item Status, Price Status, Sell through %, Commerce characteristics. Click  Save. Click Protection and Capacity tab Under Inventory Protection, select Protect on hand inventory, then either: Select protection level from item-location and select an item from the list. Select Set inventory protection value and enter the value in the text box. The entered value of inventory will be excluded in availability calculation. Select Constrain future inventory based on arrival date. Enter values in Past due by X days and Expected in Y days. Select Exclude inventory from facilities at full capacity to exclude inventory from facilities when capacity is full. Note: The details on this tab are auto saved. Click on other tabs and come back to the Protection and Capacity tab to see your changes. The Regional availability rules help optimize order promising in specific business scenarios, such as same day delivery, or site to store order. Click into the ATC View, and select Regional Availability on the left sidebar. Select one or more of the checkboxes below to configure the availability rule: Limit availability calculations from locations within X miles/kilometers from the destination zip code. Note: The number of miles/kilometers can either be selected from the drop-down, or typed in the box. Limit availability calculations from fulfillment locations associated with the requested pick-up store Note: Preferred locations can be configured in the Inventory Location Attributes UI Include availability in the pick-up store Click  Save, which prompts you to enter the rule name. Click Add. The rule is listed under Add Rule section. Click Add Rule to create another rule. The Availability Status allows configuration of notifications, sync schedules and additional constraints impacting availability for the commerce view. Under Notifications: Enter the threshold values for Out of Stock, Limited Stock and In stock. Select Publish Notifications on stock status change and select the required option. Under Sync, select one of the three options: Full sync without zero inventory records Full sync Do not sync Schedule sync time and days of the week: Optionally, you can delete the scheduled activity listed by day. Enter time in HH:MM and select AM or PM. Select the days of the week. Click Add. Under Additional constraints impacting availability, define Network inventory protection and fulfillment outages. Click Save. Rename Existing Commerce View To rename an existing commerce view: Hover the mouse over the commerce view tile. Click  Edit. Enter the name in the text box. Click Save. Delete a Commerce View To delete a commerce view: Hover the mouse over the commerce view tile. Click   Delete. A warning dialog box with message to Confirm deletion appears. Select Yes. Note: The active commerce view cannot be deleted. Only inactive commerce views can be deleted. Search Inventory for Active Commerce View The Search availability feature allows you to search for any inventory that is available for commerce based on the facility or region. The search is disabled for inactive views since inventory is not maintained or updated for inactive views. Note: The (image) icon is enabled only for active commerce views. Location level Commerce View Hover the mouse over the commerce view tile. Click the Search availability icon. In Search Availability, you can search in two ways: By Location Select Ship To Location View Purpose Enter the Item Id, Customer Id (optional) and Location Id for which you want to search the inventory availability. Note: If a customer ID is included in the request, the response shows inventory availability for that customer, including both forecast reservations and free pool inventory at the specified location. If no customer ID is provided, the response simply displays the item’s availability at the location—regardless of whether the location is eligible for the customer. Click Search. The inventory status and available units are displayed. You can see either one of the following inventory statuses. Out of Stock Limited Stock In Stock If the searched inventory is Out of Stock, the next available date of inventory availability is displayed. By Region Select By Region option. Enter the name of the item in the Item Name text box. Enter the name of the facility in the Facility Name text box. Click Search. Select an Availability Rule from the drop-down list. Zip Code, Country and Pickup Store fields are enabled on selecting the availability rule option. Enter the Zip Code of the fulfillment destination for which you want to search the inventory. Select a country from the drop-down corresponding to the zip code entered. Click Search. Note: By Region is available only if the regional rule is configured in the view. Network-level Commerce View Hover the mouse over the commerce view tile. Click Search availability icon. In Search Availability, you can search by two ways: By Network Select Ship To Home view Purpose Enter the Item Id and the Customer Id (optional) for which you want to search the inventory availability. Note: If a Customer ID is selected, availability is shown specifically for that customer, including forecast reservations and inventory from eligible locations defined in the view. If no Customer ID is selected, the system displays overall item availability across the network, excluding any forecast reservations. Click Search By Region Select By Region option. Enter the Item Id for which you want to search the inventory availability. Enter the name of the facility in the Facility Name text box. Click Search. Select an Availability Rule from the drop-down list. Zip Code, Country and Pickup Store fields are enabled on selecting the availability rule option. Enter the Zip Code of the fulfillment destination for which you want to search the inventory. Select a country from the drop-down corresponding to the zip code entered. Click Search. Availability By Customer This feature allows users to search inventory availability for a specific customer based on their assigned Eligible Fulfillment Locations, without utilizing the broader network view. To assign the eligible location groups to a customer, perform the following steps: Create a location group Navigate to Menu > Inventory Location Group > Click Add to add a new location group. In the Details tab, enter the Location Group ID and Location Group Name. In the Location Group Details tab, click Add and include specific locations. Create a new location group with eligible locations for a customer (For example, LG1) Assign the location group to a customer (for example, Walmart) using the following API: Post URL : {{url}}/customer/api/customer/customer/save { "CustomerId": "Walmart", "FulfillmentPreferences": { "EligibleLocationGroup": "LG1" } } Verify that only eligible locations are contributing to the customer's availability using the following API or by using the Search Availability section. Post {{url}}/inventory/api/availability/availabilitydetail { "AvailabilityRules": [], "CustomerId": "Walmart", "IncludeStoreExclusions": false, "Items": [ "Item1" ], "OrderAttributes": null, "Preview": false, "ViewConfigId": null, "ViewConfigName": null, "ViewDefinitionId": "Ship-to-Home", "ViewName": "Ship to Home", "locations": null }