# Manhattan Active Omni Integration

**Permalink:** manhattan-active-omni-integration
**Content Length:** 20,740 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:39:44.724423

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Administrator Tools ››Manhattan Active Omni Integration Manhattan Active&reg; Omni - Manhattan Active&reg; Allocation Integration &nbsp; Manhattan Active&reg; Omni - Manhattan Active&reg; Allocation IntegrationOverviewOmni - AllocationTouch PointsDeployment and IntegrationInbound and Outbound Message Types SetupOmni Side SetupOutbound MessageInbound MessageAllocation Side SetupOutbound MessageInbound MessageFunction ConfigurationProduct AttributesLocation AttributeAllocation Strategy ConfigurationMaintenance View Configuration Overview Active Omni is the solution for customer demands of selling, service, and order fulfillment processes. The information flow is mainly by inbound order/inventory and outbound inventory/order flow through sales and purchase orders. Active Allocation provides the ability to allocate available inventory to locations in the multi-channel environment by using a user defined definition of need. Using Active Allocation users can determine the optimal pack quantities that need to be shipped to various locations considering all of the below. The active allocation would apply the method specified based on the current lifecycle phase of the product to determine the need or required quantities for every product at a store.&nbsp; Users can compute the need based on sales/assortment plans, or historical sales metrics. When a product is available in multiple size packs, Active Allocation would recommend the best pack to ship to a location considering the current inventory and historical sales patterns (using size profiles) at that location. With the integration of Omni and Allocation, customers can achieve the following: The customers will enable the Allocators to automatically increase need computed by a specified percentage based on fulfillment options available for the product at the destination. It provides the ability to periodically integrate with Manhattan Active OMNI and retrieve the fulfillment options available for the location. &nbsp; Omni - AllocationTouch Points The general touchpoints in an integrated Omni and allocation deployment is illustrated in the image below. &nbsp; Deployment and Integration The following are the points that describe the deployment and integration. Omni and Allocation products will be deployed as independent products/applications in their own cluster setups. Omni and Allocation will be integrated using Google&#39;s Kafka messaging service and XINT component. Omni will publish events to the Google&#39;s Kafka messaging queue for any changes in Omni Location Entity using Extension Points and XINT. Allocation will listen to Google&#39;s Kafka messaging queue for Omni Location events using XINT and further update the required fulfillment attributes for the corresponding Location entity in Allocation. Inbound and Outbound Message Types Setup The following inbound and outbound message setup needs to be done in both Omni and Allocation side application. &nbsp; Omni Side Setup The following are the message need to be set up in OMNI. &nbsp; Outbound Message Organization&nbsp; &nbsp; Configure outbound queue in the Organization component to publish the Location change event to Xint component. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;MessageType&quot;:&quot;LocationEventQueueMSGType&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;Transactional&quot;:true, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;PersistMessageToMsgStore&quot;:true, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;OutBoundQueues&quot;: [ &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;QueueName&quot;:&quot;queue.LocationEventQueue&quot; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; } &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; ] &nbsp; Note: Above queue.LocationEventQueue queue is already available in seed data for the organization component. Configure outbound queue in Xint component of Omni cluster to read the retransmitted message and publish to GPS. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; POST API: {{url}}/xint/api/ServiceDefinition/outBoundMessageType/save &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Request Body: &nbsp; &nbsp; { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;MessageType&quot;: &quot;OmniLocationEventIntegrationMSGType &quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;Transactional&quot;: false, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;PersistMessageToMsgStore&quot;: false, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;BrokerClusterName&quot;: &quot;PUBSUB-DefaultBrokerConfig&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;OutBoundQueues&quot;: [{ &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;QueueName&quot;: &quot;OmniLocationEventIntegrationQueue&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;FullyQualifiedQueue&quot;: true &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; }] &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; } &nbsp;&nbsp; Inbound Message Configure inbound queue in Xint component of Omni cluster to consume location change event messages and retransmit message to the internal outbound queue. &nbsp; POST API: {{url}}/xint/api/ServiceDefinition/inBoundMessageType/save &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Request Body: &nbsp; &nbsp; { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;MessageType&quot;: &quot;queue.LocationEventQueue&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;NoOfConsumer&quot;: 2, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;InBoundQueues&quot;: { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;FullyQualifiedQueue&quot;: true, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;QueueName&quot;: &quot;queue.LocationEventQueue&quot; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; }, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;InBoundMsgToRetransmit&quot;: { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ToMessageType&quot;: &quot;OmniLocationEventIntegrationMSGType&quot; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; } &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; } &nbsp; Allocation Side Setup The following are the message need to be set up in allocation application. &nbsp; Outbound Message Configure outbound queue in the xint component to publish the retransmitted message to Location component in the allocation cluster. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; POST API: {{url}}/xint/api/ServiceDefinition/outBoundMessageType/save &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Request Body: &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;MessageType&quot;: &quot;OmniLocationEventQueueMSGType&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;Transactional&quot;: false, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;PersistMessageToMsgStore&quot;: false &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; } &nbsp; Inbound Message Configure inbound queue in the xint component to read GPS subscription and forward the message to internal outbound queue. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; POST API: {{url}}//api/ServiceDefinition/inBoundMessageType/save &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Request Body: &nbsp; { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;MessageType&quot;: &quot;OmniLocationEventIntegrationQueue&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;NoOfConsumer&quot;: 10, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ServiceId&quot;: null, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;BrokerClusterName&quot;: &quot;PUBSUB-DefaultBrokerConfig&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;InBoundQueues&quot;: { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;QueueName&quot;: &quot;OmniLocationEventIntegrationQueue&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;FullyQualifiedQueue&quot;: true &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; }, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;InBoundMsgToRetransmit&quot;: { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ToMessageType&quot;: &quot;OmniLocationEventQueueMSGType&quot; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; } } &nbsp; Configure inbound queue in Location component to consume Omni location change event messages. POST API: {{url}}/ai-location/api/ServiceDefinition/inBoundMessageType/save Request Body: &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;MessageType&quot;: &quot;OmniLocationEventQueueMSGType&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;NoOfConsumer&quot;: 10, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ServiceId&quot;: &quot;OrgLocationUpdateService&quot; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; } &nbsp; Note:&nbsp;Above OmniLocationEventQueueMSGType queue is already available in seed data for the location component Function Configuration The following describes the functional configuration that is required to achieve integration with active omni application. This integration has the ability to Periodically integrate with Manhattan Active OMNI and retrieve the fulfillment options available for the location. Product Attributes In the Product Details Page - Selected attributes are displayed in the Fulfillment Options section. Three new product attributes for fulfillment options available for a product. &nbsp; &nbsp; Ship to Address Ship to Store Pick Up In Store Note: The default value of these new attributes will be same as defined in OMNI application. Location Attribute &nbsp;In the Location Details Page - Selected attributes are displayed in the Fulfillment Options section. Four new location attributes for fulfillment options available for a store. &nbsp; &nbsp; Ship to Store Ship From Store Pick Up In Store Curbside Pickup Note:&nbsp; The default value of these new&nbsp;attributes will be same as defined in OMNI application. Allocation Strategy Configuration The following are the steps to configure in the application. Navigate to Menu &gt; Allocation Strategy &gt; Allocation Policy In the Allocation Policy Phase screen, Allocator will specify the strategy definition to adjust store retail order based on fulfillment options. &nbsp; &nbsp; Maintenance View Configuration In the maintenance view configuration screen, select the &lsquo;Omni Adjustment&rsquo; to the list of attributes. &nbsp; &nbsp; If this attribute has been configured will be displayed in the allocation maintenance screen. &nbsp; &nbsp;