# Manhattan Active® SCI Key Considerations 

**Permalink:** manhattan-active-sci-key-considerat-2
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Supply Chain Intelligence/Supply Chain Intelligence - Supply Chain Planning/Manhattan Active® SCI Key Considerations 
**Content Length:** 37,266 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:06:59.569610

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Supply Chain Intelligence››Supply Chain Intelligence - Supply Chain Planning ››Manhattan Active® SCI Key Considerations Manhattan Active® SCI Key Considerations Considerations - Overview SCI Roles for Customers Types of Customer RolesRoles and Permissions MatricesAdmin PrivilegesFolder PrivilegesReporting PrivilegesUsing JSON Store Column in ReportsReport-level Joins for Data IssuesScenario 1: Additional join conditions between two tables along with the existing ones in the frameworkScenario 2: Additional join conditions between two tables which are not directly connected in the frameworkScenario 3: Joining two tables which are not connected in the framework Considerations - Overview Manhattan’s Supply Chain Intelligence adopts the IBM Cognos Analytics tool as the business intelligence (BI) solution, which helps with the information you need to make the best choices for your supply chain operations and provides necessary visibility into the product metrics. Using a range of SCI frameworks, dashboards, and reports for multiple MA products, you gain actionable insights that help you identify trends, mitigate risks, reduce costs, and empower you in effective decision-making. Considerations for various components are established to ensure optimal functionality and user satisfaction. The following table explains topics on content promotion, folder organization, permissions, mail attachment size, and database joins, among others. For more information, refer to the links provided in some sections. Topic Considerations / Descriptions Automatic SCI Content Promotion Content Promotion is a feature available in Manhattan Active® SCI, aiming to streamline the effortless transfer of ad hoc content between SCI application servers. This functionality allows for the seamless movement of customized content between staging and production environments and vice versa. To enable this functionality, contact the MA Services team and activate the functionality if necessary. Dataset Refresh for SCI Base Content In Cognos Analytics, users define data sets based on model query subjects available in the packages. While some data set configurations are ready for immediate use, users must load data into these sets. The loading process can be done either manually or on a well-defined schedule. Once data is loaded, Cognos Analytics stores it on the application server. It is mandatory to refresh the dataset to keep the data used by the dashboards current and restore the data in the data set file after the Cognos Analytics upgrade. In the SCI base content, all the datasets are scheduled to refresh the dataset periodically. SCI datasets do not refresh more often than every 15 minutes. My Content Folder usage Cognos Analytics offers two folders, namely, Team Content and My Content, for developing reports and dashboards. During the Cognos Analytics upgrade, the transfer of content and ownership of items saved in the My Content folder is not supported.  The usage of My Content is not supported in general. It must not be used as a reliable location to save any Cognos Analytics object. Items in the My Content Folder must be moved to the Team Content folder. GCS Bucket Usage SCI provides the option to save a copy of the report output in a file to a cloud storage bucket location within the Manhattan Project. However, saving report output extracts through Google Cloud Storage (GCS) bucket external to the Manhattan Project is not supported. Mail Attachment Size Limit The default configuration of Cognos Analytics allows email attachments up to a maximum size of 10 MB. This limitation is in place to facilitate ease of use, maintain optimal network and server performance, mitigate potential delivery and security concerns, and encourage enhanced reporting practices. JSON Store Columns A JSON store column stores both standard and extension columns, but to the end-user, it behaves like any other column. It uses MySQL JSON datatype to store the FieldName and its values. Operational SCI provides the ability to extract values from the JSON_STORE column in reports by provisioning and using the JSON_EXTRACT function. This document discusses how you can use the JSON Store columns for reporting purposes in this section. Workspace Support Cognos Analytics Workspace, which is also a web-based reporting tool, is no longer supported in SCI. Report-level Joins Join conditions in reporting are crucial for accurately presenting data from multiple sources. They serve as the basis for creating comprehensive and insightful reports for users to address their business requirements. SCI query subjects are interconnected based on the joining conditions defined in the Relationship layer. However, you can define additional join conditions at the report level to optimize your reporting needs: Additional join conditions between two tables along with the existing ones at the framework-level Additional join conditions between two tables which are not directly connected in the framework Joining two tables which are not connected in the framework Note: Framework packages/models are business models of metadata created from data sources. These business models are available in Cognos Analytics UI as packages that you can use to author reports and dashboards. For more information on how to achieve these scenarios, refer to this section. SCI Custom and MA Content Backup Import SCI creates a backup of Custom Content and MA Content report folders every two hours. It can be imported manually to restore any accidental deletion of custom reports. You must contact the Manhattan Services team to import the exported content. SCI Roles for Customers There are three major categories or roles for SCI customers, namely SCI Consumer, SCI Customer Author, and SCI Customer Admin. To view the complete list of capabilities for each of these roles, navigate to the personal menu: My preferences > Personal > Advanced > My capabilities > View details Types of Customer Roles The following table explains these roles in detail: Role Name Description SCI Consumer The SCI Consumer role comprises all end-users who can run reports and have object-level security. However, users assigned to this role are not authorized to edit, delete, or schedule reports or dashboards. SCI Customer Author SCI Consumer Author can create, execute, and modify reports, dashboards, explorations, and more. Additionally, this role has privileges to run activities and schedules, allow and launch collaboration features, import relational data, upload files, etc. SCI Customer Admin The SCI Customer Admin role has admin privileges, such as managing customer roles and groups, activities, scheduling capabilities, and administration of distribution lists and contacts. This role also comprises authoring capabilities such as creating reports, dashboards, and exploration. Roles and Permissions Matrices This section provides matrices for admin, folder, and reporting-level privileges for the three SCI customer roles defined in Cognos Analytics. Admin Privileges Admin-level capabilities in SCI offers elevated access to better manage and control the reporting requirements. It promotes security and user access management for SCI customer users. Role Capabilties Schedule access Access to admin features on Administration Console Access to managing customer roles and group SCI Consumer x x x SCI Customer Author x x x SCI Customer Admin ✔ ✔ ✔ Folder Privileges Cognos Analytics includes several folders for different purposes. These folders organize reporting content in a manner that promotes better user experience and permissions. The two broad categories of SCI folders are Team Content and My Content. The following table summarizes the capabilities each role carries: Role Capabilities SCI Data packages, Packaged content, Templates folder visible/accessible SCI Audit Reports folder access My Content Folder Custom Content folder visible/accessible New button visible (to create all types of content) Manage Button SCI Consumer ✔ x x ✔ x x SCI Customer Author ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ x SCI Customer Admin ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ Reporting Privileges To streamline the reporting process and cater to the unique requirements of our users, roles with distinct responsibilities are defined within the SCI system. The following table presents access details for running reports, authoring new reports, and editing reports or dashboards for three customer roles: Role Capabilities Run Reports/ Dashboards Author Capabilities Edit Reports/ Dashboards SCI Consumer ✔ x x SCI Customer Author ✔ ✔ ✔ SCI Customer Admin ✔ ✔ ✔ Using JSON Store Column in Reports You can follow these steps to use the JSON Store column in your report: Access the Cognos Analytics UI. Open the report in Edit mode and access the report query. Navigate to the query subject from the source package, which contains the JSON Store column, and pull the column to the report query. Edit the query item definition and modify the expression as shown in the example below: Expression of the extracted columns : JSON_EXTRACT([Planning and Execution].[Shipment].[Shipment JSON STORE] , '$.Fields."extend::OrderSpecialNote"') JSON_EXTRACT([Planning and Execution].[Shipment].[Shipment JSON STORE] , '$.Fields."Description"') Report-level Joins for Data Issues This section provides the instructions to add the required or additional report-level entity joins. Following are the three scenarios: Scenario 1: Additional join conditions between two tables along with the existing ones in the framework For example, Order and Order Line are connected in the framework on the ORDER_ID column. If you want to add another join on ORG_ID, perform the following: Pull the data items from ORDER and ORDER_LINE into the report query. Add a filter to the ORG_ID column by pulling from both tables as shown in the image: Filter : [Shipping].[Orders].[ORG ID] = [Shipping].[Order Line].[ORG ID] Scenario 2: Additional join conditions between two tables which are not directly connected in the framework For example, Order and Release, Release and Release Line are connected and Order and Order Line are connected in the framework, but there is no direct join between Order and Release Line. Follow these steps to achieve this requirement: Pull the data items from required tables, in this case from ORDER, RELEASE_LINE and ORDER_LINE into the report query. Add a filter on the required columns, in this case, on ORDER_LINE.ITEM_ID and RELEASE.ITEM_ID as shown in the image. Filter : [Order Fulfillment].[Order Line].[Order Line Item ID] = [Order Fulfillment].[Release Line].[Item ID] Scenario 3: Joining two tables which are not connected in the framework For example, Release Line and Order Line are not connected in the framework. Follow these steps to achieve this requirement: Create Query1 using data items from the Release Line query subject and ensure that the joining column is available in Query1. Create Query2 by using data items from the Order Line query subject and make sure that the joining column is available in Query2. Create report-level joins by adding Join object from the Insertable Objects panel into Query Explorer. Drag and drop Query1 and Query2 into the empty boxes. Double-click the join icon to enable the joins between Query1 and Query2 and define the cardinality. The joined query, which is Query3, has query items available from Query1 and Query2.