# Manhattan Active® Omni Release Notes 25.2

**Permalink:** manhattan-active-omni-release-notes-25.2
**Path:** Home/Release Notes/Manhattan Active® Omni/Manhattan Active® Omni Release Notes 25.2
**Content Length:** 106,105 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:51:34.721912

---

Home››Release Notes››Manhattan Active® Omni ››Manhattan Active® Omni Release Notes 25.2 Manhattan Active® Omni Release Notes 25.2 Release date: April 4, 2025 Manhattan Active® Order ManagementEnterprise InventoryManhattan Assist for Item AvailabilityProduct Availability by Location and NetworkKits - Promising EnhancementsWM Integration for Replenishment OrdersNew ATC UI EnhancementsATC View Stats DashboardPostgame Protection InsightsDo Not Consume Capacity for Buy Online Pickup at Store (BOPIS) OrdersEvaluate Fulfillment Optimization for orders with Ship From Location Order SellingShip it Instead: Capture Payment for Shipping and Handling (S&H)Do Not Release Exchange Lines If Return Has VarianceReminder Emails for Pay by Link for Payment FailuresRefund by Link with AdyenHome Screen CustomizationItem Specific Return FeesOrder FulfillmentPrioritize Locations Based on the Total Ordered UnitsAutomatic Cancellation of Pick TasksANF Inventory Level RangeMerge Leg Fulfillment Modification RuleDigital Self-ServiceReturn/ Confirmation: Carrier Locator LinkNPS SurveyReturn in Store: Store FinderEmbed Digital Self-Service in your WebsitePay by Link: Select Gateway Account by StoreEven Exchanges: Arabic language SupportContact CenterCustomer Service Insights DashboardOpt-in/Opt-out of Transactional SMS in the Contact Center UISend Customer Copy of Invoice PDFCustomer EngagementTrending Topics with GenAI for CSR ManagersLanguage Based Routing in Customer Engagement CE: Anonymous Customer Authentication Via EmailBanning Customers from Agent Inbox Support Customizable Agent Response Templates Agent Inbox: HTML formatting for Messages Manage Agents' access to Interaction Channel selections Live Chat: Sequence of Reason Chips Interaction Wrap-Up Usability ImprovementsAutomatic Case Creation for Order & Order Line Holds MavenChatbot: Digital Goods InquiriesChatbot: Anonymous Customer EnhancementsChatbot: Return & Exchange InquiriesChatbot: Email BotChatbot: Store Locator ImprovementsChatbot: Usability ImprovementsChatbot: Multi-Language SupportChatbot: Request Order InvoiceB2BProcure to SellForecast Reservation and Call Off ordersOrder Orchestration based on Account Credit StatusB2B Accounts and Account Details B2B Orders & Order DetailsManhattan Active® Point of SaleOnline POS FeaturesEmployee and Employee/Customer TransactionsSingle Order Scan for ReturnsTap to PayHonoring the business flag-“Allow Cash Refund Above Till Amount”Return Order quantity defaults to 1 from Order DetailsCart Disable option upon CheckoutRetain CartExpanded CartCarry Search Criteria to New CustomerRemove Atached CustomerGrouping Ship to Address order line on Order Details Screen Delay Receipt until Order ConfirmationCatalog/Search Filter CapabilityEnter Gift Card Numbers by ScanningShip to Address flow usability improvementsAbility to Edit (Change) Pay and Carry item to ship to address in CartAbility to abort a return order that has no successful refunds processedAbility to show restocking fee at item levelSKU level configurations for store associates and customer promptsPromotion configuration: Support cross category for qualifier/target conditionsOffline POS FeaturesPrepaid Custom Tender in Offline ModeOffline Transaction Tracking and Offline Transaction Audit Log in MUP UIOffline Transaction Data Preservation and Restoration on Windows DevicesOffline Promotion Support for WindowsScreen Lock and Inactivity Timeout in Offline ModeManhattan Active® Store Inventory & FulfillmentStore Order FulfillmentStore CubingConfirm Pickup - Display Pickup PersonAutomatic Cancelation of Pick TasksStore Inventory ManagementInventory Runner - Product RequestsStore ReplenishmentWM Integration for Replenishment OrdersCycle Count - Exclude Picked and Packed InventoryRFID Store Count Manhattan Active® Order Management Enterprise Inventory Manhattan Assist for Item Availability The Manhattan Assist capabilities, powered by GenAI, are now available in the Available To Commerce UI. Users can now ask questions about the availability of an item in a particular view. The user is able to ask a wider variety of questions directly from the UI that were previously only possible via API. For example, a user can ask how many future units are available for an item, whether the item has a network protection applied, or if the item is in the view at all. Enablement: This feature is now available and is planned to be automatically enabled as part of the upcoming 25.3 market release. If you would like to opt in early, contact your Manhattan representative. Related: Available To Commerce Product Availability by Location and Network A new end point “Commerce Product Availability” has been introduced to provide users with a comprehensive view of item availability based on product, size and color. It allows users to check availability at a specific location while also displaying availability across the entire network. This enhances inventory visibility, enabling better decision-making and improved customer fulfillment. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Product Availability by Location and Network Kits - Promising Enhancements Manhattan Active® Omni now allows retailers to promise or allocate partial units of a complete kit, ensuring that each unit of a Kit Item is always sourced from a single location. This enhancement applies to Allocation, Reservation, Cart and Product ATP calls. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Kit Items in ATP(Product and Cart) Configuration WM Integration for Replenishment Orders Manhattan Active® Omni now seamlessly integrates with Manhattan Active® Supply Chain to streamline DC-to-Store Replenishment Orders. This integration enables a fully connected process, from order creation in Order Management to receiving in the store, ensuring real-time inventory visibility throughout the entire replenishment cycle. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Manhattan Active® Warehouse Management (MAWM) Integration Receiving Process Configuration New ATC UI Enhancements Manhattan Active® Omni now allows users to add/edit names to both inclusion and exclusion groups in the New ATC UI. The names for the inclusion/exclusion groups are automatically generated and can be modified by hovering over them. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Available To Commerce ATC View Stats Dashboard The View Stats dashboard in the Available To Commerce (ATC) UI provides insights on what items and locations are configured in a View Configuration as well as the count of items that are currently available in the view. Additionally, the View Stats of two different View Configurations can be compared to easily see the differences between item and location counts. Enablement: This feature is now available and is planned to be automatically enabled as part of the upcoming 25.3 market release. If you would like to opt in early, contact your Manhattan representative. Related: Available To Commerce View Stats Configuration Postgame Protection Insights The Postgame Spotlight dashboard has been enhanced to provide deeper insights on which items and locations were not optimal due to inventory protection. Enablement: This feature is now available and is planned to be automatically enabled as part of the upcoming 25.3 market release. If you would like to opt in early, contact your Manhattan representative. Related Postgame Spotlight Postgame Spotlight Configuration Do Not Consume Capacity for Buy Online Pickup at Store (BOPIS) Orders Retailers can now configure Buy Online Pickup at Store (BOPIS) orders to bypass capacity consumption at an organization level, while retaining the flexibility to designate specific locations where capacity should still be consumed for BOPIS orders. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Prevent Capacity Consumption for BOPIS Orders Evaluate Fulfillment Optimization for orders with Ship From Location Manhattan Active® Omni now enables retailers to configure orders with designated “Ship From Location” to honor the Availability to Commerce View configured as part of the fulfillment optimization template. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Evaluate Fulfillment Optimization when Ship From Location is passed Configuration Order Selling Ship it Instead: Capture Payment for Shipping and Handling (S&H) Manhattan Active® Omni now supports calculating shipping charges and collecting payment when the customer converts a pickup order to ship to them after a store has shorted the order. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Shipping & Handling Charge Calculation Configuration Do Not Release Exchange Lines If Return Has Variance Manhattan Active® Omni now allows retailers to prevent exchange lines from releasing to the fulfillment location when there is a variance in the return. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Exchange Line Holds on Variance Configuration Reminder Emails for Pay by Link for Payment Failures Manhattan Active® Omni now enables retailers to configure reminder emails for customers who have not added a payment method within a specified timeframe after receiving the initial payment failure email. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Authorization Recovery Reminder Settlement Recovery Reminder Refund by Link Reminder Refund by Link with Adyen Manhattan Active® Omni now supports Refund by Link with Adyen. This enables customers to provide a new payment method via the Adyen hosted payment page to process refund transactions that have failed for a return order or customer order. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Refund Retry Refund by Link Home Screen Customization A few enhancements have been made to the Manhattan Active® Omni home screen: The background image can now be configured via an image URL You can now choose from one of three configurable home screen options, each with different menu links: B2B (Business-to-Business) and B2C (Business-to-Consumer), or both Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Home Page Customization Item Specific Return Fees Manhattan Active® Omni has been enhanced to support item-level return fees, such as restocking and overweight return charges, allowing retailers to configure return fees based on the unique characteristics of each item. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Item-level Return Fee Configuration Order Fulfillment Prioritize Locations Based on the Total Ordered Units Manhattan Active® Omni's fulfillment optimization process now offers enhanced flexibility in sourcing decisions based on order size. Retailers can configure orders to be prioritized from specific locations based on total order quantity while ensuring minimal split shipments for a more efficient fulfillment process. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Prioritization tier based on number of units Automatic Cancellation of Pick Tasks This feature allows retailers to configure Manhattan Active® Omni to automatically retract fulfillment from a store when inventory reaches zero, removing the need for store associates to manually process a short. Pulled-back shipments are systematically reallocated to another store, while pulled-back pick-ups can either be canceled or converted to shipments based on customer preference. This automation enhances the fulfillment process, improves the customer experience, and reduces manual effort. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Pull back release when supply goes to zero Configuration ANF Inventory Level Range The Inventory Level factor of the Adaptive Network Fulfillment (ANF) now supports a wider variance of inventory levels (up to 10 standard deviations). This allows more precise cost calculation when determining the optimal location. Enablement: This feature is now available and is planned to be automatically enabled as part of the upcoming 25.3 market release. If you would like to opt in early, contact your Manhattan representative. Related Inventory Level Merge Leg Fulfillment Modification Rule This feature allows retailers to configure order actions based on “merge” fulfillment. In the event of a merged shipment, such as DC-to-DC or DC-to-Store, retailers can configure predefined actions on the order like publishing an order, in accordance with the order modification rules configuration. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Order Line Level Modification Rules How To Sync Newly Added Mod Types Digital Self-Service Return/ Confirmation: Carrier Locator Link The instruction section on the Return confirmation page for Return-by-Mail now displays the carrier’s store locator link. This provides a convenient way to find locations to drop-off return packages. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Return / Exchange Order Confirmation NPS Survey Manhattan Active Omni now offers a Net Promoter Score survey. This survey can be accessed by a link embedded anywhere such as a shipment confirmation email or your website. Each NPS rating is saved on the order, providing valuable insights into customer’s experiences and sentiment about their ordering experience. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related : NPS Survey Return in Store: Store Finder When customers create a return in Digital Self-Service, there is an option landing page which provides them options to return the product in store, by mail, or via printer-less drop-off with a QR code. The return to store option now supports customers in finding their nearest store and getting directions. This feature can be optionally enabled by retailers looking to encourage return to store. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related : Store Returns Returns Configuration Store Returns Configuration Embed Digital Self-Service in your Website This feature has now been expanded to include all Digital Self Service features. This will allow retailers to embed one or more of these features in their website, while seamlessly maintaining their UI and appearance across all pages. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related : Embedding Digital Self Service features Pay by Link: Select Gateway Account by Store Retailers can now configure unique payment gateway accounts by order’s selling location for transactions such as Pay By Link, Refund by Link, Payment Recovery, and Returns/Exchanges in Digital Self-Service. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related : Payment Gateway Accounts Selection Process Even Exchanges: Arabic language Support Returns and Exchanges in Digital Self-Service can now be used by Arabic customers. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related : Supported Locales Contact Center Customer Service Insights Dashboard The Customer Service Insights Dashboard provides organizations with key customer service metrics related to shipping address edits, returns, and cancellations, enabling them to assess their performance against industry benchmarks thereby identifying opportunities for improvement. The dashboard provides quantifiable metrics to illustrate the impact Digital Self-Service has on your contact center, if it’s enabled, or to illustrate the potential impact it could have, if it’s not enabled. Enablement: This feature is controlled by permissions to access the menu entry for the dashboard. Related: Customer service insights dashboard Opt-in/Opt-out of Transactional SMS in the Contact Center UI Agents can now manage SMS notification preferences for both registered and unregistered customers within the Contact Center application. A new "Opt-In" section under the Preferences tab in the customer profile allows agents to enable or disable SMS notifications for registered customers, applying the preference to all future orders. Additionally, the opt-in/out option is available during order placement and customer registration, with default settings based on customer type. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Opt in/Opt out of transactional SMS in the Contact Center UI Opt in/Opt out of SMS in the Contact Center UI Configuration Send Customer Copy of Invoice PDF Customer service agents can now send invoices directly to customers via email from the Order Status and Edit Order pages in the Contact Center. This feature generates an email with the invoice attached, allowing agents to send it to the customer's registered email or modify the recipient email before sending. Enablement: This feature is controlled by permissions. Related: Send customer copy of invoice PDF Customer Engagement Trending Topics with GenAI for CSR Managers CSR Managers can now access the top 10 trending insights directly on their dashboard, enabling them to stay informed about key issues and take timely action. For example, if there is a trending issue with a certain product’s quality, or a website issue, or an issue with a certain carrier, CSR managers could see that here and drill down into the cases related to that topic. Insights are ranked from highest to lowest and are localized for improved readability. The AI-powered trends feature provides: Collapsible insights from the past five days, with a tooltip offering a detailed summary for deeper analysis. A list of impacted cases linked to each insight, allowing managers to navigate directly to the Case List UI for further review and action. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Trending Insights for CSR Managers Language Based Routing in Customer Engagement Language-Based Routing ensures that customer interactions are directed to agents fluent in the customer's language, improving communication and overall experience. This feature routes interactions to the most suitable agent by considering language proficiency alongside agent availability and capacity. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Language based routing Language-Based Routing Configuration CE: Anonymous Customer Authentication Via Email Now, CSRs have the option to send a one-time-password (OTP) via email in addition to SMS in the Agent Inbox for verifying anonymous customers. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related : Contact Center Agent Inbox Banning Customers from Agent Inbox Support Agents can now ban customers from chatting, emailing, or texting with the retailer in the future, in case the customer violated the retailer’s policies by using profanity or abusive language. A Banned Customers UI provides visibility into all customers who have ever been banned and why they were banned. Customers can be un-banned in the Banned Customers UI or on their Customer Profile header. Enablement: This feature is controlled by permissions. Related: Ban Customer Customizable Agent Response Templates Agents can now create their own response templates to use while communicating with customers. Custom response templates provide a more personalized experience for both the agent and the customer. Agents can copy existing templates, modify them to reflect their own verbiage, or they can create new templates from scratch. Response templates can be created for email, chat, sms and quick chips. Enablement: This feature is controlled by permissions. Related: Creating Custom Responses Agent Inbox: HTML formatting for Messages Agents can use formatting, such as bullet lists or bold text, directly from the message box in the Agent Inbox. In the event a format choice is not readable to the end user, the system will display plain text; this may occur when using features such as bold text in SMS. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Agent Inbox Message Box Manage Agents' access to Interaction Channel selections CSR Managers now have the ability to control agent’s availability by interaction channel - SMS, Email or Chat. While agents can still set themselves to Available or Unavailable, the ability to modify their availability by interaction channel is now managed using new grants. Enablement: This feature is controlled by permissions. Related: Agent Availability Channels Live Chat: Sequence of Reason Chips Retailers can now configure the display sequence of interaction reasons when a customer selects ‘Connect to Agent’. This allows businesses to prioritize and present the most commonly used reasons at the top of the list, ensuring a more intuitive and efficient customer experience. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Chat Reasons Display Sequence Interaction Wrap-Up Usability Improvements Based on feedback from users, we have introduced a few usability improvements to the Interaction Wrap Up: It can now be dragged to a different location on the page, and that location will be remembered for your entire session. It can also be docked on the bottom left. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Interaction Wrap Up Icon Automatic Case Creation for Order & Order Line Holds Retailers can now configure automatic case creation for orders and order lines that are “On Hold”, enhancing agent visibility and ensuring efficient issue resolution. This improvement helps track and manage held orders more effectively while providing greater extensibility to include detailed information for line-level holds, enabling customer service agents to gain deeper insights and resolve holds more quickly. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Automatic Case Creation for Order & Order Line Holds Maven Chatbot: Digital Goods Inquiries The chatbot can now handle inquiries about digital goods, addressing customer inquiries such as, "To which email address will my eGift card be sent?" and "When will I receive my eGift card?" Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Maven Chatbot Chatbot: Anonymous Customer Enhancements The chatbot now supports the same intents for anonymous customers as it does for registered customers, with enhanced security requiring authentication via one-time-password (OTP) through email or SMS for order-related inquiries. Anonymous customers can: Access General Information: Inquire about store locations, and FAQs without authentication. Manage Orders: To check order status or perform actions such as cancellation, customers must first provide their first name, last name, and either email or phone number. Once authenticated via OTP, they can inquire about their orders using a specific Order ID. Seamless Live Agent Connection: If registered with the retailer, anonymous customers can connect with a live agent as a registered user, enabling CSRs to access their full purchase history and past interactions for a more personalized experience. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Registered and anonymous customer Chatbot: Return & Exchange Inquiries Maven can now answer customer questions about returns, refunds, and exchanges. For example – when will my refund be processed? Have you received my return shipment yet? Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Maven Chatbot Chatbot: Email Bot Manhattan Active® Maven can now provide 24/7, personalized service to customers via email AI. Maven can now answer customers questions and resolve issues via chat and email. Maven supports many of the same features in email that it does for chat: it can answer questions about order status, shipment tracking, returns and refunds, and it can help customers change their orders. Order Inquiries Order Tracking Return/Exchange orders Change Shipping Address Creating Returns If the customer's email matches one of the supported intents, the bot automatically responds with the relevant information. If the inquiry falls outside these categories, the email is seamlessly routed to a customer service agent for further assistance. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Email Bot Chatbot: Store Locator Improvements The chatbot now delivers a more interactive experience when responding with nearby store locations. Instead of just text-based responses, a new map widget is included, displaying store locations visually. Users can tap on the widget to view the map in detail and get directions to their selected store, making navigation easier and more intuitive. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Maven Chatbot Chatbot: Usability Improvements The following usability improvements have been made to the chatbot: Configuration to enable and disable Digital Self-Service links available in the chatbot Support for POS order status inquiries Display of credit amount when doing a price adjustment Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Registered and Anonymous Customers Chatbot: Multi-Language Support Maven Chatbot has been enhanced to allow customers to chat in all Manhattan Active® Omni supported languages. This is true for all intents and will provide better experience for customers in their native language, thus reducing the workload of live agents and customer service representatives. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Chatbot Multi-Language Support Chatbot: Request Order Invoice The Maven Chatbot now enables customers to request order invoices seamlessly, providing a faster and more convenient way to access billing information and ultimately freeing up CSRs to focus on more complex inquiries. Enablement: This feature is controlled by intent enable/disable mechanism. Related : Maven Chatbot B2B Procure to Sell The order promising process is enhanced to promise based on vendor lead times in Allocation, Reservation, Cart and Product ATP services when no eligible inventory is available at the time. Additionally, it generates a purchase order request to the planning system for the items being procured. This feature enables: Retailers to reduce Inventory holding costs by procuring inventory on purchase Protect Sales Revenue when inventory is out of stock by promising against a new purchase Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Ability to Promise against Out-of-Stock Inventory Ability to Promise against Out-of-Stock Inventory Configuration Forecast Reservation and Call Off orders Forecast reservations enable temporary item commitments for key customer accounts based on projected demand. The entire lifecycle, from demand creation to call-off orders that consume reserved inventory until the forecast expires, is seamlessly managed. Any unconsumed units are automatically released and made available once the forecast period ends. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Forecast Reservation Forecast Reservation Configuration Order Orchestration based on Account Credit Status The customer profile now includes an Account Credit Status, providing insight into the customer's financial standing. This status helps determine whether an account is on billing hold or cleared for billing, etc. Additionally, a configurable setting allows order release to be restricted based on the customer's credit status. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Account Management Account Credit Status Account Credit Status Configuration B2B Accounts and Account Details New B2B-focused user interfaces are now available for account search and detailed account viewing. The B2B Accounts UI provides the ability to search and filter customer accounts and drill down into account-level details. The Account Details UI displays an aggregation of account-related information, including orders, credit status, forecast reservations, billing and shipping information, divisions, and overview metrics. For the divisions view specifically, the customer profile has been enhanced to include a Parent Account attribute, which establishes the hierarchy of B2B accounts and their divisions. Enablement: This feature is controlled by permissions. Related: Account Management UI Resources B2B Orders & Order Details New B2B-focused user interfaces are now available for order search and detailed order viewing. The B2B Orders UI allows users to search and filter orders with configurable criteria and results tailored to business needs. Upon selecting an order, the Order Details UI provides comprehensive order insights, including status, planned shipments, and actual shipments, with the added capability to view consolidated shipments across multiple orders. Enablement: This feature is controlled by permissions. Related: B2B Orders UI Resources Manhattan Active® Point of Sale Online POS Features Employee and Employee/Customer Transactions As with Classic POS, retailers can now optionally associate a Customer with an EmployeeID.  In addition, the user can enter an employee to a transaction after attaching a customer. Enablement: This feature was initially released as part of the Behavior Change Framework in Release 25.1. It is now automatically enabled as part of this release. Single Order Scan for Returns User may scan a receipt to enter return mode.  With new functionality POS attaches the parent receipt order number for matching and enters return mode upon initial scan of receipt barcode, without needing to scan the receipt twice. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Return Process Tap to Pay Manhattan Active® Point of Sale now supports Tap to pay functionality on the iPhone, which allows users to pay through the iPhone, where the phone itself acts as a payment terminal allowing customers to make payments effortlessly using NFC-enabled physical debit & credit cards, Apple Pay (including Apple Watch) or any digital wallets (like Ally Pay, Samsung Pay, etc.) This is supported on iPhone iOS version 17.0 and above, and only for customers using Adyen payment gateway. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Tap to Pay Process Tap to Pay Configuration Honoring the business flag-“Allow Cash Refund Above Till Amount” Manhattan Active® Point of Sale now prevents the till from going negative. Previously, the application allowed the till to go negative by default. However, with this update, if the "Allow Cash Refund Above Till Amount" flag is false, the till will no longer be able to go negative during Refund and Postvoid. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is enabled by default. Customers with the flag unchecked will notice a change in behavior, preventing the till from going negative. Related: Till Refund Validation Configuration Return Order quantity defaults to 1 from Order Details Manhattan Active® Point of Sale now provides an option to modify the return quantity when creating a return order from the Order Details. Users will now see a stepper against the order line when creating a return order. The stepper always defaults to 1 and users can increase/decrease the quantity based on the total returnable quantity. The stepper is protected with a new grant. Enablement: This feature is controlled by permissions. Cart Disable option upon Checkout The Cart Checkout process is now enhanced to address issues which were causing UI break during the complete payment section where for example, the Transaction Detail screen to initiate a Return order was accessible even while completing payment for a Sale transaction. Upon Checkout now, the application puts an overlay on the left side panel and hides the Hamburger menu. The tabs like Engage, Catalog, Transactions and Performance are not accessible unless the user either completes the payment and hence the order, or selects Back to Cart from the Checkout screen. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Retain Cart When a user navigates away from the Cart page, the system should preserve the current cart state—including items, quantities, discounts, and other relevant details—ensuring it remains accessible upon their return. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is enabled by default. Related: Retain Cart - Process Retain Cart - Configuration Expanded Cart Manhattan Active® Point of Sale is enhanced to allow users to expand the right-hand cart panel into full-screen mode. This improvement provides ample space to display more item cards and ensures that transaction options from the context menu are always visible, offering seamless access to a variety of functions at all times. This is a resource-protected feature. The expanded cart option is available for full-size and tablet form factors (Ex: iPad, Windows RP9, ET51) and not supported for smaller form factors (Ex: iPhone, TC52). The BOPIS flow is not supported for the expanded cart. Also, the expanded cart option is not supported in Offline mode. Enablement: This feature is controlled by permissions. Related: POS Cart Process Carry Search Criteria to New Customer When adding new customer following customer keyword search which did not return the desired existing record, the entered key values will be carry forward to autopopulate selected fields once the user selects "Add Customer" button.  There will be some simple logic to make 'best guess' as to which Add Customer field is appropriate to the keyword(s): If the input contains "@" fill in the email field, if it is numeric, will be populated into phone field, otherwise input will be populated into customer name (first or last). Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Customer Keword Search Carry Forward Remove Atached Customer User is now able to remove a customer after adding items to the cart. A raindrop menu has been added allowing user to detach the customer and add another as needed.  Previously this was only possible in an empty cart. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Remove attached Customer - Process Grouping Ship to Address order line on Order Details Screen The Order Details screen is now enhanced to group the different Ship to Order lines on an order as per the Shipping Address and Shipping method. Once the purchase is completed, the order can be viewed in the Transactions tab and the different order types, like In-Store Purchase, Pickup at store, Ship to address order are displayed there. The ship to address order lines are grouped as per the shipping address and shipping method. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Delay Receipt until Order Confirmation Manhattan Active® Point of Sale is introducing an enhancement to prevent users from navigating to the receipt screen before an order is successfully confirmed. This ensures accuracy in transaction processing and prevents incomplete/abandoned orders. To ensure transaction accuracy, users will no longer be able to navigate to the receipt screen before an order is successfully confirmed. If an error occurs, an error pop-up will appear with two options: Retry or Start Over. The Retry option will attempt to confirm the order by internally retrying for order confirmation. If all attempts fail, the user will be redirected back to the error pop-up. The Start Over option will cancel the transaction, reverse the payment, and return the user to an empty cart. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Delay Receipt until Order Confirmation Catalog/Search Filter Capability Users now have the ability to filter catalog category and keyword search results.  The retailer can flexibly configure any number of filter attributes, either generic standard item master data (color, size, brand) or, custom attributes (color category, monitor size, sleeve length, fit). These can be tailored so different categories will feature different available filters.  Ex. the filters for Consumer Electronics vs Womens Shoes would not be expected/required to be the same Via an AVAILABILITY filter function, items with zero stock and no network availability will be excluded from keyword search results and hidden from the catalog/category browsing results, ensuring users only see available products. Enablement: This feature is controlled by permission and configuration that is disabled by default.  Note - to be most useful, the feature requires appropriate master data setup, as well. Related: Enabling Filtering Catalog Filter Configuration Enter Gift Card Numbers by Scanning Using Cart Input Forms configuration, retailers can now configure POS to allow Gift Card numbers to be entered by scanning a bar code, in addition to swiping on the terminal or typing via keyboard. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Configuration to support Scan Entry of Gift Cards Ship to Address flow usability improvements Manhattan Active® Point of Sale is now enhanced to provide a better user experience while creating ship to address orders for customers.  Users were able to create orders from the Catalaog screen until now.  However, going forward, they will also have the ability to convert an In-Store purchase into a ship to address order.  The application also allows the users to modify the shipping address and shipping method for individual lines, as well as for groups of items clubbed under the same shipping address and method. The Ship to Address option on the Catalog section now behaves as a toggle option.  When the user selects the ship to address option the application will display the default shipping address and method.  Users prompts is also enhanced to provide better visibility of the list of addresses.  The shipping address and the shipping method are now separated and upon selection of shipping address the user is navigated to the shipping method. Enablement: This feature is controlled by Behavior Change timer, "POS - Iris Ship-to-Address Usability Improvements". It will be released in production environments on March 15, 2026, but you can opt-in earlier. Please refer to the behavior change document here for additional information on this process and to learn how to take advantage of this feature early for testing and training. Note : If there is an extension in the flow, an extension metadata change is needed. Related: Ship to Address Process Ability to Edit (Change) Pay and Carry item to ship to address in Cart Manhattan Active® Point of Sale is enhanced to allow users to modify the In-Store purchase to a ship to address order type. In-Store purchase, Pickup at store items in the cart can be converted to a ship to address order. Users cannot convert the send sale orders to a ship to address. The raindrop menu provides the ability to Change to Shipping which is protected by grants. Enablement: This feature is controlled by Behavior Change timer, "POS - Iris Ship-to-Address Usability Improvements". It will be released in production environments on March 15, 2026, but you can opt-in earlier. Please refer to the behavior change document here for additional information on this process and to learn how to take advantage of this feature early for testing and training. Related: Ship to Address Process Ability to abort a return order that has no successful refunds processed A store user will be able to abort a return order that is attempting a refund in a scenario where the user wants to edit the order at that point, provided the order has no successfully processed partial or full refund on the order. Enablement: This feature is enabled by default but requires permission to be granted to the user to abort the order Related: Returns Process Ability to show restocking fee at item level Retailer will now have the ability to define return fees or restocking fees at item level. These restocking fees can be configured as a percentage, flat fee or per quantity fee. All items that incur restocking fees will have a configuration to notify store associates and customers at the time of sale using the cart prompts feature. Enablement: This feature is enabled by configuration. Related: Restock fee using cart prompts SKU level configurations for store associates and customer prompts Retailers will now have the ability to configure prompt messages and link these to individual or group of items via a configurable cart event condition framework. The configured prompt message will be displayed whenever the items are added to the cart, i.e. sale, return or both. There are two types of messaging when an item is added: Informative that will allow the users to read the message and will be dismissed on button click, and the item will be added to the cart. Preventive that will allow the users to read the message and will be dismissed on button click, but here the item will not be added to the cart. This enhancement will also support prompting store associates to capture additional information about the item. More details on the supported data type in the link below. Enablement: This feature is enabled by configuration. Related: Cart Prompts Configuration Cart Event Configuration Promotion configuration: Support cross category for qualifier/target conditions Retailers will now have the ability to define "OR" condition between item attributes. This will be applicable to qualifiers/target conditions for both inclusion and exclusions rules. This is only supported by item attributes. This will be supported for new or existing promotion. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Promotion configuration Offline POS Features Prepaid Custom Tender in Offline Mode The Prepaid Custom Tender is now supported in Offline Mode with the following configuration: Prepaid = True, ProcessThroughTerminal = False, PopCashDrawer = False, IncludeInDrawerCount = False. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled with the release. Related: Offline Payment Offline Transaction Tracking and Offline Transaction Audit Log in MUP UI In this release, the Offline Transactions section now includes Offline Transaction Tracking and Offline Transaction Audit Log with failure reasons and exception trace details for better transparency and troubleshooting. Additionally, this data is now read-only, ensuring users can view transaction details, sync statuses, and failure logs without making any modifications. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled with the release. Related: Offline Transaction details in MUP Offline Transaction Data Preservation and Restoration on Windows Devices In this release, offline transaction data and sequence details will now be restored to the app's local storage while the user is on the home screen, instead of requiring navigation to Cart Next Gen, as in the previous release. This improvement streamlines the data recovery process after app reinstallation, ensuring a seamless experience for retail associates. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled with the release. Related: Handling Offline Transaction Data When the App Is Uninstalled in Offline Mode (Windows Only) Offline Promotion Support for Windows Promotions can now be applied in offline mode on Windows, allowing store associates to use eligible promotions without an active network connection. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Offline Promotions Process Offline Promotions Configuration Screen Lock and Inactivity Timeout in Offline Mode Lock Screen and Inactivity Timeout support is now extended to offline mode, enhancing security by automatically locking the POS screen after a period of inactivity. Store associates must re-authenticate to regain access, ensuring compliance with security policies even when operating offline. Enablement:This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Screen Lock and Inactivity Timeout in Offline mode Manhattan Active® Store Inventory & Fulfillment Store Order Fulfillment Store Cubing Cubing recommendations can now be provided to associates during packing, reducing shipping costs and improving packing efficiency. Because a list of package types is initially displayed, associates can gather the packing materials prior to starting the packing process. Items are cubed into packages based on weight, volume and critical dimensions (optional.) Associates are able to override the cubing recommendation if needed. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Packing Process Packing Configuration Confirm Pickup - Display Pickup Person The primary pickup person's information is now displayed on the Confirm Pickup list UI. Associates can search for orders using either the order creator or pickup person's information. Enablement: This feature is now available and is planned to be automatically enabled as part of the upcoming 25.3 market release. If you would like to opt in early, contact your Manhattan representative. Related: Confirm Pickup Automatic Cancelation of Pick Tasks Refer to Automatic Cancelation of Pick Tasks feature in the Order Management section of this document. Store Inventory Management Inventory Runner - Product Requests Store associates now have the ability to request a nearby associate to retrieve an item that isn't available on the sales floor so they don't have to leave a customer unattended. When an item is requested from the View Inventory UI or Item Catalog UI, a push notification is sent to other available store associates. A UI allows associates and managers to view the open, in progress and completed product request tasks. Tasks can be canceled if the customer changes their mind or rejected if the item cannot be located. Enablement: This feature is controlled by permissions. Please also make sure to copy profile sv2::src from base to your orgnizational profile. Related: Product Requests View Inventory POS Item Catalog Store Inventory UI Resources Point of Sale UI Resources Store Replenishment Retailers who are not RFID-enabled can now automatically create tasks to replenish point of sale and customer order picking transactions that occur from the selling area. When a sale or pick occurs from the sales floor and additional inventory exists in the store, a task is created to replace the units that were just sold or picked. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default and by permissions Related: Replenishment Replenishment Configuration Store Inventory UI Resources WM Integration for Replenishment Orders Refer to WM Integration for Replenishment Orders feature in the Order Management section of this document. Cycle Count - Exclude Picked and Packed Inventory Retailers can now exclude inventory that has been picked and packed from cycle counts. This allows associates to focus their counting on available inventory, without having to spend time counting items that have already been picked or packed for orders. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Cycle Count Process Cycle Count Configuration RFID Store Count The store count duration is now displayed to store associates on the Store Count UI and saved when the count is submitted to provide visibility into how long counts are taking to complete. Safeguards are also added to prevent an associate from mistakenly performing a store count in the wrong store. The current store is now displayed on the Store Count UI, and a warning message displays if the store count would result in moving more tags than is allowed by a configurable threshold from other stores to the current store. Enablement: The duration feature will be automatically enabled as part of the market release. The wrong store count feature is controlled by configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Store Count - Duration Store Count - Incorrect location Store Count - Incorrect Location configuration