# Manhattan Active SCI Status

**Permalink:** manhattan-active-sci-status-2
**Content Length:** 18,443 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:37:07.773442

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Supply Chain Intelligence&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Supply Chain Intelligence - Supply Chain Planning ››Manhattan Active SCI Status Manhattan Active SCI Status &nbsp; &nbsp; OverviewReport SectionsReport Types Overview &nbsp; The Manhattan Active SCI Status tracks and monitors the usage of SCI across Manhattan Active&reg; products. It intends to continuously monitor and inform users to take proactive actions for&nbsp;interactive and scheduled reports, performance and configuration-related issues, and long-running reports that signal a potential risk of crashing and avoid downtime. &nbsp; You can access it by navigating to:&nbsp;Team Content &gt; SCI Audit Reports &gt; System Activity &gt; Manhattan Active SCI Status &nbsp; Manhattan Active SCI Status contains the date filter which you can use to reflect data&nbsp;accordingly. The following table explains the sections it&nbsp;includes.&nbsp;Some sections comprise&nbsp;links to detailed reports that you can view for more insights and analysis.&nbsp; &nbsp; Report Prompt &nbsp; The following table explains the fields in the prompt page of this report: &nbsp; Prompt Field Description Select Date The default value for this filter is Last 24 Hr, and you can also select a date from last 15 days. Report Type You can select the report type that fetches value from &#39;Report reportservice&#39;, &#39;ReportView reportservice&#39;, &#39;Exploration queryservice&#39; Type You can run the report for Standard and Unsaved report &nbsp; Report Sections &nbsp; The following table describes the sections in the Manhattan Active SCI Status report and their color coding parameters: &nbsp; Section Name Description Color Codes for Visualization Reports in 24Hrs This visualization includes two metrics for&nbsp;Interactive&nbsp;and&nbsp;Scheduled&nbsp;reports to capture the number of reports users execute in the SCI instance.&nbsp; &nbsp; Detailed Report: You can access the drill-down or detailed report for interactive and scheduled reports by clicking the links on the numbers. This page provides the report name, timestamp, username, package, execution status, execution time in seconds, and issues. &nbsp; You can also filter the drill-down reports by report name and/or username. Note: The Interactive and Scheduled reports metrics do not have any threshold defined. Failed Reports &nbsp; This visualization indicates the percentage of reports that failed to generate for the date you select. &nbsp; Detailed Report: This section also contains a link to the drill-down or detailed report that includes the report name, timestamp, username, package, report type, execution time in seconds, issues,&nbsp;error details, and KB link. &nbsp; You can also filter the drill-down reports by report name and/or username. Green: less than&nbsp;2%&nbsp; Yellow: between 2 and 3%&nbsp;&nbsp; Red:&nbsp;greater than or equal to&nbsp;3%&nbsp;&nbsp; Long Running Reports This section provides the number of reports which ran for more than two minutes for Interactive and 30 minutes for schedule. Depending upon the data availability, this report displays either a Green check or bar visualization for a report type. &nbsp; Detailed Report: To access the drill-down or detailed report for interactive and scheduled reports, double-click&nbsp;individual columns on the bar visualization. The detailed report provides the report name, timestamp, username, package, execution status, execution break down time, execution time in seconds, and issues. Color Codes for Interactive Reports :&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; Green: greater than or equal to 0 but less than or equal to&nbsp;2&nbsp; Yellow: greater than or equal to 2 but&nbsp;less than or equal to&nbsp;5 Red: greater than 5 Maximum: 8 Color Codes for Scheduled Reports: Green: less than or equal to&nbsp;30 Yellow: greater than or equal to 31 but&nbsp;less than or equal to&nbsp;60 Red: greater than&nbsp;60 Maximum: 90 Max Runtime Minutes Per Hour This section provides the highest execution time in minutes&nbsp;per&nbsp;hour for a day and the time interval when it is at its maximum. Color Codes for execution time: Green:&nbsp;1 to 150 minutes Red:&nbsp;greater than 150 Ad hoc Reports This section provides a count of all ad hoc or unsaved reports users execute. &nbsp; Detailed Report: You can access the drill-down or detailed report&nbsp;by clicking the links on the number. This page provides report name, timestamp, username, package, execution status, report type, and execution time in seconds. &nbsp; You can also filter the drill-down reports by report name and/or username. Green: less than or equal to&nbsp;2 Yellow: greater than or equal to 2 but less than or equal to&nbsp;5 Red: greater than 5 Operational Documents This section highlights the number of operational documents that users execute. Examples of these documents are&nbsp;packing lists, bills of lading, and others. Red: greater than 0 Multiple Users Same Report This section provides the number of reports that multiple users execute in an hour of a day. &nbsp; Detailed Report: You can access the drill-down or detailed report&nbsp;by clicking the links on the number. This page provides report name, timestamp, username, package, execution status, report type, and execution time in seconds. &nbsp; You can also filter the drill-down reports by report name and/or username. Green: greater than or equal to&nbsp; 0 but&nbsp;less than or equal to&nbsp;5 Yellow: greater than or equal to&nbsp;5 but less than or equal to 10 Red: greater than 10 &nbsp; Report Types &nbsp; The following table summarizes the standard IBM Cognos report types used in Operational SCI and their category in the Manhattan Active SCI Report:&nbsp; IBM Cognos Service Type Report Type&nbsp; Metric Category/Usage in Manhattan Active SCI Status Report Exploration queryservice Dashboards/Story Not considered in the MA Active status report Exploration queryservice Unsaved Report Adhoc Report reportservice Unsaved Report Interactive / Adhoc Report reportservice Standard Report Interactive Report batchreportservice Standard Report Scheduled ReportView batchreportservice Standard Report Scheduled Report promptforward reportservice Unsaved Report Not considered in the MA Active status report Report promptforward reportservice Standard Report Not considered in the MA Active status report &nbsp; Manhattan Active SCI Status &nbsp; &nbsp; Drill-down Report for&nbsp;Reports in 24Hrs &nbsp; &nbsp; Drill-down Report&nbsp;for Long Running Reports &nbsp; &nbsp; Drill-down Report&nbsp;for Failed Reports &nbsp; &nbsp; Drill-down Report for Multiple Users Same Report &nbsp; &nbsp; Drill-down Report&nbsp;for Ad hoc Reports &nbsp;