# Manhattan Active® Omni Release Notes 25.3

**Permalink:** manhattan-active-omni-release-notes-25.3
**Path:** Home/Release Notes/Manhattan Active® Omni/Manhattan Active® Omni Release Notes 25.3
**Content Length:** 90,949 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:51:31.497304

---

Home››Release Notes››Manhattan Active® Omni ››Manhattan Active® Omni Release Notes 25.3 Manhattan Active® Omni Release Notes 25.3 Release date: July 4, 2025 Manhattan Active® Order ManagementEnterprise InventorySales Velocity as an Optimization FactorDelivery Performance Dashboard: Metrics based on PDD/RDDShopify Integration: Availability Sync UpdatesOpen Orders for ML PredictionsOrder FulfillmentSupersession Items for Pickup OrdersKit Items – Returns Support and Call Center/DSS UI EnhancementsEnterprise Promise and FulfillAccount based AvailabilityForecast Reservation and Call-Off ordersProcure to Sell Delivery Calendars & Location based lead timeAccount based PricingAccount Minimum Fill RatesOrder Consolidation by AccountOrder ValidationAccount Fulfillment PreferencesB2B Orders UI - Mass ActionsContact CenterCompact ModePrinterless Returns via Contact CenterCustomer EngagementOrganization Color CodeEnhanced Case Management Experience in Manhattan Active® OmniMavenMaven Chatbot - Salesforce IntegrationMaven Conversational ReturnsMaven Email EnhancementsLocalization for CSR-facing AI featuresDigital Self-ServiceSupport Additional Item Attributes in ExchangeChange Pickup StoreStore Short OptionsChange Shipping Address - Capture PaymentPartial Order Cancellation – Customer RefundManhattan Active® Point of SalePOS Online FeaturesDirect LoginCustomer NotesGoogle API refactoringAdd items to Cart by scanning a 2D EPC or SGTN Bar CodeCustomer Facing Display (CFD)Linked ItemsPayment ImprovementsMigration of base payments to payment formsImproved Payment Failure HandlingEnhanced Payment AnimationDeferred Order ConfirmationSupport Payment Forms In Automatic RefundsPayment Reconciliation - Using Last TransactionPeripheral Command FrameworkPOS Offline FeaturesInformational Tax Support in OfflineLocalization Support in OfflineItem with PriceExtensibility Support for Offline Services via Pre and Post HookManhattan Active® Store Inventory & FulfillmentStore Order FulfillmentSupersession Items for Pickup OrdersFulfillment Progress - Store Fulfillment HoursExternal OMS Integration based on Fulfillment TypeStore Inventory ManagementCycle Count GroupingRFID Partially Tagged ItemsRFID Receiving - Unknown TagsRFID Pullbacks & Transfers - Locate ItemRFID Store Count - Hide Tag Read CountStore CommonLabel Thermal Printing Manhattan Active® Order Management Enterprise Inventory Sales Velocity as an Optimization Factor Manhattan Active® Omni now offers the capability to optimize allocations based on item velocity. This feature enhances fulfillment decisions by prioritizing locations with deeper or slower-moving inventory based on sales velocity for a specified time period, without relying on an external days-of-supply-multiplier from a forecasting solution, thereby improving sell-through and reducing overstock. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Sales Velocity Sales Velocity Configuration Delivery Performance Dashboard: Metrics based on PDD/RDD The Delivery Performance Dashboard, which offers insights into early, on-time, and late shipments and deliveries, has been enhanced to provide greater flexibility in metric calculation. Retailers can now configure performance metrics based on Promised Delivery Date (PDD) or Requested Delivery Date (RDD), in addition to the currently supported Earliest Delivery Date (EDD). Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Delivery Date Performance Dashboard UI Delivery Performance Dashboard Metrics Configuration Shopify Integration: Availability Sync Updates Real-time inventory updates through the Shopify integration are enhanced by allowing Shopify to trigger availability refreshes from Manhattan Active® Omni whenever inventory falls below a configured threshold. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Inventory Integration with Shopify Shopify Integration Configuration Open Orders for ML Predictions Manhattan Active® Omni has enhanced the MAML system to retrieve and provide open order counts for all location types, regardless of capacity tracking configuration. This enables the ML model to utilize open order volume during prediction, improving the accuracy of allocation decisions. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Order Fulfillment Supersession Items for Pickup Orders For retailers with multiple versions of the same item, Manhattan Active Omni can now consider all versions of the item during availability checks and allocation of pickup orders. During store fulfillment, store associates can fulfill the order using any of the related supersession items. When a supersession alternative is used to fulfill an order, the original item is shown on customer-facing documentation and store UIs. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Supersession Items Supersession Items Configuration Kit Items – Returns Support and Call Center/DSS UI Enhancements Manhattan Active® Omni now supports receipt and verification at the component level for kit items. Both the Call Center and Digital Self-Service UIs have been enhanced to display detailed information about the components within a kit. Additionally, selected email templates have been updated to show the available kit components. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Kit Items Kit Items Configuration Enterprise Promise and Fulfill Account based Availability Enterprise Promise and Fulfill now enhances B2B capabilities by tailoring inventory visibility and promising to the unique needs of each customer—across both pre-purchase and post-purchase processes. Real-time Availability, ATP, and Reservation Services now deliver customer-specific responses without requiring separate views per customer. These services also surface relevant forecast reservations for both the customer and their parent organizations, enabling more precise and personalized fulfillment insights. Businesses can configure location eligibility for each customer, ensuring that availability and promise responses are limited to only those locations approved for that customer. Related: Search Inventory Availability by Customer Search Inventory Availability by Customer Configuration Forecast Reservation and Call-Off orders Enterprise Promise and Fulfill now simplifies B2B call-off order allocation by automatically linking customer orders to eligible forecast demands using just the Customer ID. Businesses can: Let Enterprise Promise and Fulfill identify valid forecasts eligible for allocation across the customer and its parent entities when sharing is enabled. Optionally bridge multiple forecast demands for greater control. Configure allocation preferences per customer—demand-only, freepool-only, or both. These enhancements drive greater efficiency and accuracy in fulfilling B2B commitments without manual mapping or rigid dependencies. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Forecast Reservation Configuration Procure to Sell Delivery Calendars & Location based lead time The solution now features enhanced capabilities to improve promise accuracy and optimize procurement location selection by incorporating Vendor Delivery Calendars and distribution center–specific lead times by item. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Procure to Sell Procure to Sell Configuration Account based Pricing Enterprise Promise and Fulfill now offers enhanced B2B pricing flexibility through support for multiple price lists tailored to specific customers, items, locations, or order attributes. Businesses can define ranked price rules to determine the most applicable price list in any given scenario. For even greater control, a preferred price list can also be specified directly on the order line—ensuring pricing precision across complex B2B transactions. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Account based Pricing Account based Pricing Configuration Account Minimum Fill Rates Enterprise Promise and Fulfill now supports configurable fill rate thresholds to help businesses control when orders are eligible for release. Businesses can define minimum allocation percentages before releasing orders, ensuring more complete shipments and reducing split fulfillment. Thresholds can be applied at the overall order level or individually per order line—empowering businesses to strike the right balance between service levels and operational efficiency. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Account Minimum Fill Rates Account Minimum Fill Rates Configuration Order Consolidation by Account Enterprise Promise and Fulfill now supports the ability to consolidate orders having common attributes into a single release. Consolidated Releases are sent to the fulfillment facility just in time for all of the orders to be processed before the next carrier pick up time. This is configured at the customer level and can significantly reduce the number of release messages sent outbound to the fulfillment system. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Order Consolidation by Account Order Consolidation by Account Configuration Order Validation Order validations provide systematic validation of orders to ensure service teams quickly identify orders requiring action. A set of rules can be configured and applied to different sets of orders, which can prevent updates to orders based on specific conditions, or to apply order or line level holds to flag orders for further review and action. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Order Validation Order Validation Configuration Account Fulfillment Preferences Fulfillment preferences can be defined at the account level to allow unique order processing and orchestration behavior for a specific account. These preferences include: pre-defined instructions for orders on an account, account level overrides to release grouping and consolidation, and various fulfillment strategies for allocated and back-ordered units on an order. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Account Management Account Management Configuration B2B Orders UI - Mass Actions B2B Orders and Order List User interfaces are enhanced to support a broader range of orchestration actions. Header actions include allocate, release, cancel, hold, and unhold, and can be performed for multiple orders at a time. Line actions include allocate, release, and cancel and can be performed for multiple lines at a time. Enablement: This feature is controlled by permissions. Related: B2B Orders UI - Mass Actions UI Resources B2B Shipment Tracking A new version of Shipment Tracking pages is available with optimized content and layout for B2B orders. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: B2B Shipment and Return Tracking UI B2B Shipment and Return Tracking UI Configuration Contact Center Compact Mode Customer service users can now access a compact view across the Order Status, Return Status, and Exchange Status pages, helping reduce visual clutter and improve usability, especially on smaller screens like laptops. This feature allows users to collapse or expand key sections including Customer Info, Order Status Bar, Order Lines, and Order Totals. Users can save their preferred layout configuration, which will persist across logins for a consistent and personalized experience. Enablement: This feature is controlled by Behavior Change timer, OM - Compact mode for call center screens. It will be released in production environments on "2026-03-15", (15th March 2026), but you can opt-in earlier. Please refer to the behavior change document here for additional information on this process and to learn how to take advantage of this feature early for testing and training. Related: Compact Mode For Call Center Screens Compact Mode For Call Center Screens Configuration Printerless Returns via Contact Center Manhattan Active® Omni supports printer-less returns for returns initiated through contact center. This is supported for Fedex and UPS out of the box. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Printerless Returns in Contact Center Printerless Returns in Contact Center Configuration Display Return Status in Related Returns List Manhattan Active® Omni provides enhanced visibility of the “Related Returns” view within a customer order by including the status of each return or exchange (e.g., Returned, Fulfilled). In addition, related orders are now automatically sorted, ensuring the most recent order appears first. This update improves efficiency for Customer Service Representatives by eliminating the need to open each related order individually to understand its current state. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Order Status Inquiry – Related Returns and Exchange Orders Customer Dashboard Order Date Range The Customer Dashboard now supports order date searches for up to one year in the past, enabling broader visibility into customer activity. This extended range is especially valuable for retailers with longer purchase cycles, such as luxury brands, where customers may go several months between orders. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Customer Dashboard - Transactions Date Range Customer Engagement Organization Color Code Clients can define a color per organization, which will be displayed as an oval behind the organization name on the customer service and engagement UIs. This is helpful for agents who support multiple organizations, as it provides a visual reminder of the organization in which they are currently operating, and minimizes the likelihood of cases being created in the wrong organization. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Organization Color Code Organization Color Code Configuration Enhanced Case Management Experience in Manhattan Active® Omni The Case List user interface has been significantly enhanced to streamline agent and manager workflows, offering greater flexibility, control, and efficiency. Customizable Column Views Agents can now personalize their Case List by selecting which columns to display and setting their preferred column order. These preferences are retained across sessions and apply across all organizations the agent supports. Bulk Actions: Assign and Close Managers can now assign or close up to 200 cases at once directly from the Case List. This is especially useful when rebalancing workloads—for example, when an agent is on leave or exits the organization. New “Waiting” Case Status A new case status, Waiting, allows agents to flag cases that are pending customer input. This helps managers identify cases not actively in progress and better allocate team resources. Improved Case List Filters Case List filters have been reorganized in numeric-alphabetical order for easier navigation. Additionally, edit and delete permissions for public filters are now grant-controlled, protecting the integrity of shared views. Customer Email Column with Sort Enhancements A new Customer Email column has been added to the Case List, supporting organizations that track orders by email. The following columns are now sortable: Summary, Customer Email, and Order Number. Enablement: Find below the enablement details: Customizable Column Views - This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Bulk Actions: Assign and Close - This feature is controlled by permissions. New “Waiting” Case Status - This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Improved Case List Filters - This feature is controlled by permissions. Customer Email Column with Sort Enhancements - This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Customizable Column Views Customizable Column Views Configuration Bulk Case Actions Bulk Case Actions - UI Resources New "Waiting" Case Status Improved Case List Filters Improved Case List Features - UI Resources Customer Email Column with Sort Enhancements Interaction Wrap-Up Enhancements The Follow Up required checkbox has been replaced with the Case Status drop-down. This allows agents to better define the actual status of the case, such as ‘Waiting’ or ‘In Progress’, for better case management. If the agent provides a value in the Case Status drop-down and opens the actual case (using the More Button), the same value is displayed in the Status column. Note: If an organization is interfacing records that define the Follow Up Required value as true, the system will set the Case Status to Open. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Interaction Wrap Up WhatsApp Incoming messages sent from the WhatsApp application now appear in the Agent Inbox, identified with the WhatsApp icon. WhatsApp messages are supported under the text message umbrella, utilizing the same routing and agent capacity rules defined for text messages, minimizing setup time. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: WhatsApp Maven Maven Chatbot - Salesforce Integration The Maven Chatbot is now embedded within the Visualforce website. Additionally, it is integrated with Salesforce Service Cloud Live Chat, enabling customers to seamlessly transition from chatbot interactions to live agent support. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Maven Chatbot and Agent Assist Maven Conversational Returns The Maven Chatbot now guides customers step-by-step through initiating a return for items in their order. This enhancement reduces the need for manual intervention, allowing customer service teams to allocate fewer resources to processing returns and focus on higher-value interactions. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Maven Chatbot Maven Email Enhancements Maven now supports additional post-purchase service scenarios via email, helping automate and streamline customer responses: Return and Exchange Automation for damaged, lost, or incorrect item cases Price Override Handling for items with price changes since purchase Document Support, including PDF copies of order invoices and return shipping labels Localization Support, now honoring all Manhattan Active® Omni-supported locales Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Maven Email Localization for CSR-facing AI features CSR-facing AI features like Generate Draft Responses, Generate Interaction Wrap-up, Generated Case Summary, Interaction Summary in Agent Inbox, and Trending Topics now honor all Manhattan Active® Omni supported locales. Coupled with the existing language based routing feature, this will allow more effective interaction management for customers across different locales. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Maven Multi-Language Support Digital Self-Service Support Additional Item Attributes in Exchange Retailers can now configure additional item attributes, beyond just Color and Size, for customers to choose from when initiating both even and uneven exchanges. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Additional Item Attributes Additional Item Attributes Configuration Change Pickup Store This self-service feature enhances customer satisfaction by empowering shoppers to seamlessly choose an alternate nearby store for pickup when their original location is out of stock. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Change Pickup Store Change Pickup Store Configuration Store Short Options A new landing page experience has been introduced to help customers take immediate action when their Buy-Online-Pickup-In-Store (BOPIS) order cannot be fulfilled due to lack of inventory. This consolidated view presents clear options, allowing customers to: Ship the order to their address Cancel the order Select a nearby store for pickup Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Store Short Options Change Shipping Address - Capture Payment The Change Shipping Address feature in Digital Self-Service has been enhanced to allow retailers to either collect payment or write off the excess tax amount, when an address change leads to a balance due. The write-off is based on a configured threshold value. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Change Shipping Address - Capture Payment Change Shipping Address - Capture Payment - Configuration Partial Order Cancellation – Customer Refund This self-service enhancement ensures that customers receive a refund immediately when they cancel an order partially. The system automatically processes the refund for the canceled items, enhancing the overall customer experience. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Partial Order Cancellation – Customer Refund Manhattan Active® Point of Sale POS Online Features Direct Login This capability enables users to log in directly to a pre-configured page within the store application on subsequent logins during the same business day. Upon the first login of the day, essential configurations are stored locally on the device. For any following logins by the same user, the system bypasses API calls and instead uses this local data to immediately navigate to the specified screen. Direct login and navigation to a store page currently apply only to the cart screen.  We do not support direct navigation on login to any other Store screens at this time. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Direct Login Direct Login configuration Customer Notes Customer Notes in POS will now be saved in the Customer > Note entity to ensure consistency and seamless visibility across both Customer Service and POS platforms. As part of this change, notes will be migrated from the previous location, Clienteling > Note, to Customer > Note. Please note that all legacy notes created in POS before this update will be lost once the new behavior is implemented. Customers wishing to preserve their existing POS notes will need to migrate them manually prior to this change. Additionally, a Note Category feature is being introduced in POS which is already existing in Customer Service now. This category will be displayed according to system configuration and will be mandatory for associates when adding new notes. Enablement: This feature is controlled by Behavior Change timer, "POS - Combine Customer Notes with CS". It will be released in production environments on August 15, 2026, but you can opt-in earlier. Please refer to the behavior change document here for additional information on this process and to learn how to take advantage of this feature early for testing and training. Related: Customer Notes Google API refactoring The application is enhanced to assist the user to enter the address for customers by providing suggestions based on the response from Google address search if a Google account is registered for this service. When the user enters the Street Address 1 for the customer, the Store UI makes a call to Google API via the Storefacade and generates the address suggestion for the details entered. Google APIs are currently supported for address autocomplete only. A static API is required to be linked to the Google Account used for making the GooglePlaces API call, which will be required by the services team to configure. Google plans to deprecate the Google Maps API in the near future, with the Google Places API set to replace it.  This change was done to adopt the new Google Places API to the Manhattan Active® Point of Sale. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Google Maps Address Suggestion Google Maps Address Suggestion Configuration Add items to Cart by scanning a 2D EPC or SGTN Bar Code Manhattan Active® Point of Sale has been enhanced to support the scanning of 2D containing EPC or SGTIN identifiers.  (QR codes are one example of this type of barcode).  When scanned, the application automatically decodes the data, retrieves the corresponding item SKU ID, and adds the item to the cart for order creation. This functionality is available in both online and offline modes. Additionally, these 2D code scans are also supported in return mode. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Item Entry by 2D Bar Code Item Entry by 2D Code Configuration Customer Facing Display (CFD) The Customer Facing Display enables direct interaction between customers and store associates during checkout. Customers can view cart line items, attach themselves to an order, enter shipping information for Omni orders, and select their preferred receipt delivery method. Retailers can also configure the display to collect additional customer input, helping streamline the transaction process and improve accuracy at the point of sale. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default and by permissions. Related: Customer Facing Display Customer Facing Display Configuration Point of Sale UI Resources Linked Items Linked Items in POS enable the retailers to refer to products that are associated or commonly sold together. It provides the capability to build a relationship between the primary item (parent) and one or more related products (child). This capability can be obtained using the configuration. The relationship between the parent and child can be forced upon parent item added to the cart or can be configured to be by the user's choice. This capability is applicable during the sale or return of an item. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Linked Item Linked Item Configuration Payment Improvements Migration of base payments to payment forms The application has been improved to streamline payment processing behavior and flow between base payment types (Credit, Check, Cash) and custom payment types. With this enhancement, base payment types now also utilize the payment forms architecture to orchestrate the payment flow. This change eliminates payment type-specific capabilities, making the application run purely based on configuration. This change is not supported for payment types that use the cloud implementation. The gift card payment flow is not altered with this enhancement. Enablement: This feature is controlled by Behavior Change timer, "POS - Migrate base payments to payment form". It will be released in production environments on August 15, 2026, but you can opt-in earlier. Please refer to the behavior change document here for additional information on this process and to learn how to take advantage of this feature early for testing and training. Related: Payment Forms Payment Forms Configuration Improved Payment Failure Handling Several improvements were made to improve the payment process, in the event of a payment failure. A close button is introduced on the gift card activation screen when attempting to refund a gift card. When the payment is processed during a sale or refund, in case of any API timeouts / failures, the application allows the user to explicitly refresh the payment information. This will prevent the user from seeing stale payment information on the order. Handling partial approvals from payment providers when the approved amount is lower than the requested amount, as in a Gift Card approval for less than the full balance due. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Close Button Cart Refresh On Failures Partial Payment Capture Enhanced Payment Animation The POS application shows a card swipe animation when selecting a base payment type like a credit card. The animation is shown to the user when the application interacts with the payment terminal and expects the user to complete the payment on the payment terminal.  The existing animation is enhanced for a better user experience and optimized for all form factors. The animation can now also be configured to show for any payment type. The customer also now has the flexibility to replace the animation with any custom animation by supplying the animation file. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Payment Animation Configuration Deferred Order Confirmation The last step of the transaction in the application today is marking the order as confirmed. There are multiple business processes that look for order confirmation to treat the order as complete. However, we do notice instances where the order is fully paid for but confirmation fails due to network issues or temporary API failures. The application is now enhanced to attempt confirmation asynchronously if the synchronous confirmation times out or fails. Enablement: This feature is controlled by the Behavior Change timer, "POS - Asynchronous Order Confirmation". It will be released in production environments on August 15, 2026, but you can opt in earlier. Please refer to the behavior change document here for additional information on this process and to learn how to take advantage of this feature early for testing and training. Related: Delay Receipt and Asynchronous order confirmation Support Payment Forms In Automatic Refunds The application is enhanced to open the payment forms and allow the user to input payment information during the automatic refund process. This is controlled by a new flag, which, when enabled, allows the form to be used in the automatic refund flow. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Refund - Payment Forms Refund - Payment Forms Configuration Payment Reconciliation - Using Last Transaction The payment processing in the application is hardened to handle communication failures and perform a real-time transaction search in the payment gateway before attempting a new payment request to the gateway. This feature is supported for both sales and returns. If the application initiates a payment capture or refund call to the terminal and there is a delay in the response, a last transaction call is made from the application to check if the terminal has processed the request. If the last transaction call also fails, a communication error is sent back to the application. If the user tries to re-run the same payment transaction, the application will first make a last transaction call to check the status of the previous attempt. If the last transaction call is successful, the payment is automatically updated in the application, and the customer does not need to swipe their card again. This feature is only supported for the Payware gateway. Enablement: This feature is now available and is planned to be automatically enabled as part of the upcoming 25.4 market release. If you would like to opt in early, contact your Manhattan representative. Related: Last Transaction Functionality Peripheral Command Framework The Peripheral Interaction Framework is a structured process governing and orchestrating peripheral interactions within the Manhattan Active Omni POS. This framework not only supports the seamless integration of various peripherals but also allows customers to implement and manage their own peripherals, enabling tailored interactions as required. The Peripheral Command Framework offers a new approach for implementation teams to interact with peripheral plugins. The PCF allows the implementation teams to build brand-new integrations with a new payment provider without having to build a plugin with a simple method to execute and abstract all other logic. Currently, PCF support is limited to iOS and Android for custom plugins. The base plugins for Payware and Adyen have not adopted PCF yet. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Peripheral Command Framework Peripheral Command Framework Configuration POS Offline Features Informational Tax Support in Offline Informational Tax (aka "VAT" tax) is now supported in offline mode. Offline transactions can include informational tax details based on configuration. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Offline Informational Tax Offline Informational Tax Configuration Localization Support in Offline Localization is now supported in offline mode of Manhattan Active® Omni POS. This includes support for displaying localized content such as labels, messages, and receipts based on the user’s configured locale. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Offline Localization Offline Localization Configuration Item with Price From this release, only items with an active price will be imported onto the device. Items with a zero price will be excluded from the offline item data. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Item With Price Extensibility Support for Offline Services via Pre and Post Hook Offline service extensibility has been enhanced with Pre and Post hook support, enabling developers to inject custom logic before and/or after a core offline service is executed. For more details and configuration guidance, refer to the Proactive Developer Hub. Manhattan Active® Store Inventory & Fulfillment Store Order Fulfillment Supersession Items for Pickup Orders Refer to Supersession Items for Pickup Orders feature in the Order Management section of this document. For more on this functionality, Please refer to supersession items documentation on proprofs. Fulfillment Progress - Store Fulfillment Hours For customers using on-time store goals, store fulfillment hours are now considered in fulfillment time calculations on the Fulfillment Progress Dashboard. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Fulfillment Progress External OMS Integration based on Fulfillment Type Retailers now have the ability to define based on fulfillment type whether inventory updates are sent to Manhattan Active Inventory for pickup, shipment and pullback orders. This is applicable when Store Inventory Management is implemented with an external Order Management System (OMS). Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Confirm Pickup Confirm Pickup Configuration Shipping Shipping Configuration Pullback and Transfers Pullback and Transfers Configuration Store Inventory Management Cycle Count Grouping The Cycle Count UI can now group and sequence the items to count. Groups can be based on the best travel path sequence defined by Pick Path Optimization, or by Store Department. When Pick Pack Optimization is used, store associates can view the item's primary and secondary locations. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Cycle Count Cycle Count Configuration RFID Partially Tagged Items Support for partially tagged items is now available in RFID Receiving, Store-initiated Transfers and Pullbacks & Transfers. In addition to receiving or packing units by performing an RFID tag read, store associates can input a unit using traditional non-RFID methods such as a UPC barcode scan, quantity increment button and direct quantity entry. This is useful when tagging is being rolled out and is not complete for all units of an item. Enablement: This feature is now available and is planned to be automatically enabled as part of the upcoming 25.4 market release and by permissions. If you would like to opt in early, contact your Manhattan representative. Related: Receiving Process Store-initiated Transfers Process Pullbacks & Transfers Process Store Inventory UI Resources RFID Receiving - Unknown Tags The matching of unknown tags during receiving has two improvements: Handheld RFID receive by reading tags now gives priority to matching unknown tags to eligible packages without a tag feed when packages also exist with a tag feed. Retailers can require that associates receive by scanning the package barcode to ensure that the tags are distributed to the correct package. This applies to both handheld and overhead. Enablement: The improved handheld auto-matching feature is now available and is planned to be automatically enabled as part of the upcoming 25.4 market release. If you would like to opt in early, contact your Manhattan representative. The feature to require package scan is controlled by configuration that is enabled by default. Related: Receiving Receiving Configuration RFID Pullbacks & Transfers - Locate Item Store associates can now utilize a handheld RFID reader if they need assistance locating an item while processing a pullback order. Based on permissions, a locate action directs the user to the closest unit based on their current location. Enablement: This functionality is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default and by permissions. Related: Pullbacks & Transfers Store RFID Configuration Store Inventory UI Resource RFID Store Count - Hide Tag Read Count The tag read count has been removed from the Store Count UI to avoid confusion with the number of expected tags that have been counted. Store associates can perform an action to view the tag read count based on permissions. Enablement: This feature is controlled by permissions. Related: Store Count Store Inventory UI Resources Store Common Label Thermal Printing Retailers can now silently print shipping and return labels to thermal printers from the Store mobile application. A configuration UI and bulk import API exists for store operations to create and maintain thermal printers for the store network. The packing slip continues to print to a document printer. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default and by permissions. Related: Printing Process Printing Configuration Store Common UI Resources