# Manhattan Active® Omni Release Notes 24.4

**Permalink:** manhattan-active--omni-release-notes-24.4
**Path:** Home/Release Notes/Manhattan Active® Omni/2024/Manhattan Active® Omni Release Notes 24.4
**Content Length:** 79,880 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:51:45.729391

---

Home››Release Notes››Manhattan Active® Omni››2024 ››Manhattan Active® Omni Release Notes 24.4 Manhattan Active® Omni Release Notes 24.4 Manhattan Active® Order ManagementEnterprise Inventory Postgame SpotlightRate-Based Carrier SelectionRank-Based Carrier SelectionOn Hand Service Level AgreementAuthorized SegmentSegmentation PrioritizationContinuous Allocation - Hold Inventory Only for Backorders at Item LocationAbility to Configure Default BOPIS View So Line Level Override Configuration in the Fulfillment Optimization Template is not Required Inventory Protection EnhancementOrder SellingGenAI Configuration Audit SummariesOrder FulfillmentShopify App ReleaseFulfillment System Substitution for BOPIS OrdersMAWM Integration - Undo Wave EventsCancel Release with Allocation IntactDigital Self-ServiceManage Returns & Exchanges Capture Customer FeedbackReturns & Exchanges: Display Item Ineligibility Reason Localize DSS menu items Opt-In Text Messages: Configure Countries Exchange creation: Image for item color selection Contact CenterAdditional Order Timeline EventsReturn, Exchange and Order Status NotesDisplay Prices, Charges, Discounts, and Taxes for Cancelled Items in Customer Service UIProduct Recommendations: New AnnotationsCustomer Service Notes and ProfileCustomer Engagement Case Details & Case Notes in the Agent InboxAbility to Include Attachments in ChatAgent Inbox Usability ImprovementsManager Dashboard Cross-Organization SupportManager Dashboard Usability ImprovementsRequired Attributes on Case FieldsHours of Operation for OrganizationSkill Based RoutingTransfer InteractionsLive Chat SurveyMavenChatbot Dashboard3rd Party Chat IntegrationGen AI Drafted ResponsesChatbot ConfigurabilityChatbot FAQOutput link to CarrierEstimated Delivery Dates on Order WidgetManhattan Active® Point of SalePOS Fiscalization and GlobalizationMexicoAustraliaPOS Iris FeaturesManager Override from Second LoginDeep link to order summaryMultiple GC activation / reloadGift Card Cash outCash drawer status check to automatically dismiss the close drawer optionEnhancing Back button behaviour- For legacy adaptorRefund Process Improvements in IrisSAF ModeIris parity featuresPOS 2.0 OfflineEnhancing the transition from Offline to Online and Displaying the Network StatusOffline Enablement by Register TypeNon-Validated Return with Refund using Non Prepaid Tender (Credit Card) in Offline ModeTransaction modification functionsManager OverrideVoice Authorization for Credit Card TransactionsManhattan Active® Store Inventory & FulfillmentManhattan Active® Store Order FulfillmentSubstitution of Pickup OrdersFulfillment Goals & GamificationManhattan Active® Warehouse Management and StoreRFID PickingManhattan Active® Store Inventory ManagementStore-Initiated Transfer - Location-Specific Transfer TypesRFID Adjust Inventory Multiple TagsRFID View InventoryStore CommonRFID Bluetooth Reader Management Manhattan Active® Order Management Enterprise Inventory Postgame Spotlight Postgame Spotlight is further enhanced to provide deeper insights into why orders are not optimally allocated due to inventory and capacity reasons. Postgame Spotlight now includes the top departments and items contributing to orders not getting allocated optimally, at a location level and network level. Additionally, the most capacity-constrained locations were added to the dashboard along with a recommendation to increase capacity based on daily levels seen in the dashboard. Enablement: This feature is controlled by an existing configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Postgame Spotlight Postgame Spotlight Configuration Rate-Based Carrier Selection Rate-Based Carrier Selection provides the ability to select the cheapest Ship Via for the requested shipping method during promising and Earliest Delivery Date (EDD) calculation in Cart and Product ATP Calls. This feature can be enabled for each shipping method and can be used in combination with the new On Hand SLA feature. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Rate-Based Carrier Selection Rate-Based Carrier Selection Configuration Rank-Based Carrier Selection Rank-Based Carrier Selection, when used in combination with lane and/or service level validation, provides the ability to select the highest ranking ship via for a requested shipping method that has a valid lane and/or service level. This is supported during order allocation or direct promising call and Earliest Delivery Date (EDD) calculation in Cart and Product ATP Calls. This feature can be turned on for each shipping method and can be used in combination with the new On Hand SLA feature. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Rank-Based Carrier Selection Rank-Based Carrier Selection Configuration On Hand Service Level Agreement On Hand Service Level Agreement (SLA) can be configured at the shipping method level, in combination with Rate-Based Carrier Selection, if the cheapest ship via within a certain SLA should be selected. Alternatively, it can be configured in combination with Rank-Based Carrier Selection, if the highest ranking ship via should be selected and then validated against the SLA. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: On Hand SLA On Hand SLA Configuration Authorized Segment Manhattan Active® Omni now supports authorized segments for percentage and priority strategies. Prior to this release, authorized segments were supported only for priority based strategy. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: User Authorization Segment Segmentation Configuration Segmentation Prioritization The Manhattan Active® Omni has been enhanced to prioritize segmented inventory for orders. This improvement gives customers better control over their inventory by allowing them to define which segmented inventory and supply types should be prioritized over others. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Demand Segment Match Demand Segment Match Configuration Continuous Allocation - Hold Inventory Only for Backorders at Item Location Manhattan Active® Omni continuous allocation has been enhanced to provide customers with better visibility of inventory during supply events by reserving inventory only for backordered units at the item location level, while immediately releasing the remaining inventory. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Hold Inventory for Backorders at Item Location Hold Inventory for Backorders Configuration Ability to Configure Default BOPIS View So Line Level Override Configuration in the Fulfillment Optimization Template is not Required The allocation for Buy Online Pick Up In Store (BOPIS) orders has been enhanced to automatically consider the default view defined in the promising configuration, eliminating the need for a line-specific override for BOPIS transactions. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Promising Cart Default BOPIS View Configuration Inventory Protection Enhancement Manhattan Active® Omni has been enhanced to protect inventory at the Item Location level, regardless of the number of on-hand supply types or inventory attributes. Prior to this release, inventory was protected at the Item Location level for each individual supply record. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Protection Quantity Order Selling GenAI Configuration Audit Summaries Manhattan Active® Omni is now using the power of generative AI to provide at-a-glance summaries of changes made to order, payment, and promising configurations in the past 60 days, including who made each change and when. This information is accessible in the Active Omni Home screen. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related : GenAI Audit Summary Order Fulfillment Shopify App Release A Manhattan Active® Omni app is now available in the Shopify app store, enabling easy connectivity between a Shopify store and a Manhattan Active® Omni organization. For details on the scope of the integration, see the 24.3 release. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Release Notes 24.3 Shopify Technical Integration Configuration Fulfillment System Substitution for BOPIS Orders This release enables fulfillment systems for 1 to 1 substitution during fulfillment of Buy Online Pick Up In Store (BOPIS) orders according to the customer’s preferences captured on the order. Once the item is substituted, the order is repriced and invoiced using the replacement item’s price. Reservations and inventory are updated according to the fulfilled item. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Substitution of Pickup Orders Substitution During Fulfillment MAWM Integration - Undo Wave Events The Manhattan Active® Omni can now receive status updates from Manhattan Active® Warehouse Management when the undo wave process takes place in the warehouse. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Manhattan Active® Warehouse Management (MAWM) Integration Cancel Release with Allocation Intact Manhattan Active® Omni now supports release cancellation in an ad-hoc manner. If retailers want to generate a new release, but do not want to risk losing any inventory by shorting the existing release and re-allocating the line, this API can be used to cancel the release but leave the allocation and order line as is, so that the retailer can make necessary updates to the order or order line. This API supports cancel release requests for the pickup at store, ship to store, and ship to address delivery methods. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Cancel Release Digital Self-Service Manage Returns & Exchanges The Manage Returns feature allows customers to manage their return and exchange orders. The feature enables customers to independently: Cancel returns and exchanges Resume, edit, and complete unintentionally abandoned orders Reprint shipping and barcode labels Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Manage Returns & Exchanges Capture Customer Feedback The Digital Self-Service module allows the retailer to capture customer feedback through Net Promoter Survey (NPS), including optional comments. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Capture Customer Feedback Returns & Exchanges: Display Item Ineligibility Reason Digital Self-Service now displays more detailed reasons to explain why items are not returnable. This enhancement includes additional out of the box reasons and the ability to customize reasons using extensibility in certain scenarios, such as when an item has been monogrammed or is fragile. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Returns and Exchanges Using Optimized UI Improvements Reasons for Item Ineligibility Localize DSS menu items The menu items displayed in the Digital Self Service module can now be localized. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Localizing Header Menu Icon Opt-In Text Messages: Configure Countries Retailers can configure the list of countries that are displayed in the Opt-In Text Messages feature. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Opt-In Text Messages Configuring Country Codes Exchange creation: Image for item color selection This enhancement presents users with thumbnail images for item color selection during the exchange creation flow. Enablement: This feature is controlled by Behavior Change timer, ‘OM - DSS Exchange: Item images for color selection’. It will be released in production environments on 15th March 2025, but you can opt-in earlier. Please refer to the behavior change document here for additional information on this process and to learn how to take advantage of this feature early for testing and training. Related: Item Images for Color Selection Contact Center Additional Order Timeline Events The Order Timeline has been enhanced to include additional events that occur during the order lifecycle. This includes events related to the return, shipment, delivery, and payment of the order. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Order Status Inquiry - Order Timeline Return, Exchange and Order Status Notes The note-taking process for orders and order lines has been significantly enhanced to improve efficiency and ease of use. Users can now add, modify, or delete notes directly from the Order Status and Return and Exchange pages. Enablement: This feature is controlled by permissions. This feature is also controlled by the Behavior Change timer only for the edit order page, OM - Reduced Click Edit Order Notes Pop-Up. It will be released in production environments on 2025-03-15, but you can opt-in earlier. Please refer to the behavior change document here for additional information on this process and to learn how to take advantage of this feature early for testing and training. Related: Capture Order Notes Display Prices, Charges, Discounts, and Taxes for Cancelled Items in Customer Service UI Cancelled orders will now display totals, subtotals, prices, charges, discounts, and taxes in parentheses after the order has been cancelled. This enhancement enables agents to easily review order details, respond to customer inquiries, and potentially place new orders while honoring the same charges and discounts. Enablement: This feature is controlled by the Behavior Change timer, OM - Display amounts for cancelled orders or lines. It will be released in production environments on 2025-03-15, but you can opt-in earlier. Please refer to the behavior change document here for additional information on this process and to learn how to take advantage of this feature early for testing and training. Related: Order Modification: Cancelled Orders Product Recommendations: New Annotations Product recommendations in the Item Search, Edit Order, and Create Return UIs now display new annotations across the recommended items. The ‘Available at your Store' annotation has been updated with new colors, while the 'Ships with your Order' and 'Promotion’ annotations are also available. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Product Recommendations and Annotations in Contact Center Customer Service Notes and Profile Customer service agents now have access to customer notes and the customer profile on the customer dashboard. Agents can easily share customer needs and preferences through notes and assist customers who want to update their profiles. To accommodate these needs, we have added access to Customer Notes and the Customer Profile via grants for agents who use only Customer Service. Enablement: This feature is controlled by permissions. Related: Customer Notes and Profile Display Customer Service Notes and Profile Configuration Customer Engagement Case Details & Case Notes in the Agent Inbox The Case Details UI is now accessible directly from the Customer Banner in the Agent Inbox. In addition, the agent can provide notes for the case directly from the Case Details UI in the banner, or from Wrapup. When the customer’s interaction is associated with an existing case, the case icon includes a red exclamation point, alerting the agent that case information is available regarding the customer’s concern. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release Related: Contact Center Agent Inbox Ability to Include Attachments in Chat Customers using Manhattan’s chat can send and receive attachments with their agent. When the agent receives an attachment, they can click on it and a new tab will open. After the case is closed, the attachments can be accessed from the Case Details UI or viewed within the Agent Inbox customer timeline. Supported attachment types include .gif, .png, .jpg, .txt, and .pdf. The customer and agent can send up to five attachments at one time. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release Related: Sending and Receiving Attachments Agent Inbox Usability Improvements Usability improvements have been added to the Agent Inbox, including the following: The ability to use shortcuts to send messages for Chat and SMS. For Windows, the shortcut is CTRL + Enter; for Apple, it is Command + Enter. The Order ID is now directly displayed in the Customer Banner instead of the text 'Most Recent Transaction'. The Order ID is also a hyperlink to the Order Status UI. If an interaction is associated with an existing case and an Order ID is defined on the case record, that Order ID will be displayed in the Customer Banner. A low-volume sound alert will play when an interaction arrives in the Agent Inbox if the agent is in a different screen. Interactions are organized within the left panel based on interaction type to ensure that those requiring more immediate assistance are displayed at the top. If the agent selects an interaction, it is moved to the top of the list for better visibility. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Contact Center Agent Inbox Manager Dashboard Cross-Organization Support Managers using the Manager Dashboard can now view teams across multiple organizations simultaneously, allowing them to monitor more productively. Cross-organization support is based on organization hierarchy. When a user selects an organization from the drop-down menu, the system will allow them to access all teams associated with the selected organization, as well as its child and grandchild organizations, provided the manager has a user organization record for each of these organizations. All page features, including metrics and the Performance Board, will display data for the selected teams across organizations. Enablement: The feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Contact Center Manager Dashboard Manager Dashboard Usability Improvements In the Performance Board section, the user’s first and last names are displayed instead of their User ID. The names include hover capability; hovering over a name reveals the agent’s User ID. If an agent’s name is not defined in their User record, the system will display their User ID. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Contact Center Manager Dashboard Required Attributes on Case Fields Customers can now define mandatory fields on the Case Details UI based on case subcategory and case status. For example, if the Resolution ID field should always be populated when the case status changes to closed, this can be configured in the Case UI Display menu. Additionally, instructions can now be defined at the case subcategory level, whereas previously they could only be set at the case category level. Instructions are also now displayed in the Interaction Wrap Up UI. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Case Category and Subcategory Selection Hours of Operation for Organization A configuration has been added for hours of operation to specify the time windows during which customer service agents are available to take conversations. When the current time is outside the configured operating hours, the live chat will notify the customer that agents are not available at that time. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Chat Skill Based Routing Retailers can now capture specific reasons from customers for initiating a chat with a live agent and configure queue configuration rules for interaction routing accordingly. Based on the customer's reason, the system can automatically direct the chat to the appropriate team of agents, aligning with their skills and expertise. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Chat Reasons Routing Configuration Transfer Interactions Agents can now transfer interactions from their inbox to agents of another specific team for handling customer escalations, providing specialized assistance, or balancing workloads. Enablement: This feature is controlled by permissions. Related: Transferring Interaction Support Live Chat Survey The chat feature has been enhanced to capture customer feedback through a survey following the live chat session. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Post Live Chat Survey Maven Chatbot Dashboard The Chatbot Dashboard provides comprehensive metrics and chatbot usage data. It offers visibility into overall chat statistics, deflection rates, and metrics by specific intent or topic. This provides insights into questions such as: “What topics are customers most frequently asking the chatbot?” “What topics are most successfully resolved or deflected by the chatbot?” and “How long are chatbot sessions lasting?” Enablement: This feature is controlled by permissions. Related: Chatbot Dashboard 3rd Party Chat Integration Customers can now use third party live chat applications in conjunction with Manhattan Active Maven Chatbot. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Maven Chatbot and Agent Assist Gen AI Drafted Responses The Agent Inbox has been enhanced with an AI-powered generate feature to assist customer service agents with their chat and text responses to customers. Enablement: This feature is controlled by permissions. Related: Maven Chatbot and Agent Assist Chatbot Configurability The Chatbot has been enhanced to allow for the customization of responses and flows. The base functionalities of the chatbot can now be turned on and off, depending on the desired use cases. The chatbot can also customized to support different functions not already present out of the box. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Maven Chatbot and Agent Assist Chatbot FAQ Manhattan’s Chatbot can now provide answers to frequently asked questions. Retailers may provide a document containing their FAQs to the chatbot, and it will answer customer questions from the document. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Maven Chatbot and Agent Assist Output link to Carrier Manhattan’s Chatbot can now conversationally provide clickable links to the carriers shipping customer orders. It can also answer questions related to delivery dates and shipment dates. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Maven Chatbot and Agent Assist Estimated Delivery Dates on Order Widget Manhattan’s Chatbot displays a widget containing a registered customer’s most recent order. This widget has been enhanced to display the estimated delivery date for the most recent order. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Maven Chatbot and Agent Assist Manhattan Active® Point of Sale POS Fiscalization and Globalization Mexico Manhattan Active® Point of Sale product is now compliant with Mexico fiscal regulations by integration with a third party fiscal provider. Refer to the I18N and localization guidelines in the configuration guide. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configurations which is disabled by default. Related: POS Fiscalization - Mexico Australia Manhattan Active® Point of Sale product is now compliant with Australia fiscal regulations. Refer to the I18N and localization guidelines in the configuration guide. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: POS Fiscalization - Australia POS Iris Features As of this quarter, the following features are released in Iris, the next generation of Manhattan Active® Point of Sale. Manager Override from Second Login We have associated a subset of Classic features to the Manager Override (manager "key") ability.  As with Classic POS a user may perform these functions if they have the "override" grant, or, can perform them without logging off if another user with the grant provides credentials ("key").  With new functionality, the manager may now provide the "key" remotely, while logged into potentially another device. Enablement: This feature is controlled both by permissions and by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Manager Override Process Manager Override Permissions Deep link to order summary For customers who wish to take orders from the call center and subsequently use our POS system for payment, refund, or any modifications, Iris will provide the capability to deep link those orders. This functionality will enable the orders to be directly loaded into our POS application, streamlining the process and enhancing user convenience. Enablement: This feature will be automatically enabled as part of the market release. Related: Deep Link Multiple GC activation / reload With this feature, the customer can now purchase more than one gift card in a single transaction and the user can now activate or reload more than one gift card in a single order. The gift cards can be activated one at a time in sequence. Enablement: This feature will be automatically enabled as part of the market release. Related: Gift Card Gift Card Cash out Iris now gives the retailers an option to offer "cash out" to the customers if their gift card’s remaining balance is very low(below the configured threshold value). Enablement: This feature itself will be automatically enabled as part of the market release. The cashout configuration threshold is configured via the Classic configurations. Related: Gift Card Cash drawer status check to automatically dismiss the close drawer option Iris now supports automatically dismiss of “Close cash drawer” button once the cash drawer is closed manually. Enablement: This feature will be automatically enabled as part of the market release. Related: Cash Drawer Integration Automatically Dismiss the Cash Drawer Enhancing Back button behaviour- For legacy adaptor Iris now handles back button presses during payment processing based on the status of the request sent to the payment gateway. Enablement: This feature will be automatically enabled as part of the market release. Related: Enhanced back button Refund Process Improvements in Iris Enablement: This feature will be automatically enabled as part of the market release. Related: Refund Process Improvements in Iris SAF Mode In Resilient Cloud, if a payment terminal can't connect to the payment system, transactions can still proceed using Store and Forward (SAF) if they meet a set floor limit. If the transaction doesn't meet this limit, the system may prompt for voice authorization, if enabled. This process also applies to return transactions. Voice Authorization for Credit Card Transactions Introduced Voice Authorization for credit card transactions, allowing users to obtain authorization codes manually from the Payment Authorizer’s support center when the Payment Terminal is Offline. This feature is currently supported only Payware Gateway. Enablement: This feature will be automatically enabled as part of the market release. Related: SAF Mode Voice Auth Supported Business Flags in Iris Auto Link Employee Return to Employee UI response timeout in seconds Customer Opt-In Preferences Customer Contact Configs Receipt Configuration Adoption Receipt Max Quantity Print Suspended Receipt Void not supported Max from exchange tender Related: Supported Configuration Iris parity features These features are equivalent to the prior versions in POS Classic. Price Holds and Quotes Deposits Tax Override at Header Level Ability to scan or enter suspended transaction receipt in sessions tab Canada Internationalization Extension - Information Popup from server response Scanning customer barcode in cart Ability to add an item to wishlist Ability to not display ship to store locations based on certain attributes Autofocus POS 2.0 Offline This release introduces significant enhancements to offline capabilities in the next generation of Manhattan Active® Point of Sale. Below are the key features released this quarter for offline functionality: Enhancing the transition from Offline to Online and Displaying the Network Status A new unauthenticated API enables seamless network connectivity checks, managing document uploads, downloads, and transaction syncing helped in enhancing the transition from offline to online. Note: The environment property ZUULSERVER_WEBNAMES requires an update to include the Omni URL as part of its value. Ensure the backend is updated with this environment property before deployment. Enablement: This feature will be automatically enabled as part of the market release. Offline Enablement by Register Type This feature  allows enabling or disabling Offline Mode for specific register types within the POS system. By default, Offline Mode is disabled for all registers. To enable or configure Offline Mode by register type, please follow these steps: MUP UI Link: <omni-url>/om/home Navigate to the MUP UI path: Application Configuration> Manage POS Configuration> POS Configuration > POS Store Configuration > Store Common Config > Offline Supported Register Types. Select the specific register types you want to support Offline Mode. This configuration can be applied at both the location and organization levels. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configurations which are disabled by default. To enable Offline, please follow the above-mentioned step. Non-Validated Return with Refund using Non Prepaid Tender (Credit Card) in Offline Mode Retail associates can now process non-validated returns with refunds using non-prepaid tenders, such as credit cards, while operating in offline mode. Enablement: This feature will be automatically enabled as part of the market release. Transaction modification functions Apply discount Tax Override Tax exempt Note: Discount configurations are not supported currently in offline, such as including maximum discount limits at the item level, threshold discounts, unit-level discounts, or role-based (Halo) discounts. Enablement: This feature will be automatically enabled as part of the market release. Manager Override This is supported in offline for Price Override and Tax Exempt. Enablement: This feature will be automatically enabled as part of the market release. Voice Authorization for Credit Card Transactions Introduced Voice Authorization for credit card transactions, allowing users to obtain authorization codes manually from the Payment Authorizer’s support center when the Payment Terminal is Offline. This feature is currently supported only by Payware Gateway. Enablement: This feature will be automatically enabled as part of the market release. Currently, offline metric data is being captured in the database. In a future release, a user interface dashboard will be made available. Related link: POS 2.0 Process POS 2.0 Configuration Manhattan Active® Store Inventory & Fulfillment Manhattan Active® Store Order Fulfillment Substitution of Pickup Orders Store associates now have the ability to substitute items which cannot be fulfilled for pickup orders. Instead of rejecting the pick, the user can elect to substitute instead. For each order line that allows substitution, a list of substitutable item(s) is displayed to the store associate. That list can be obtained: During order capture based on the customer's selection From substitution rules defined in Manhattan Active® Order Management From an external system In addition, store associates with the appropriate permission can substitute with any item This functionality is available for both pickup and same day delivery orders. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default and by permissions. Related: Substitution during Fulfillment Substitution in Stores Substitution in Stores - Configuration Store Fulfillment UI Resources Fulfillment Goals & Gamification Retailers can now define the fulfillments hours of their stores so that time-based goals are only measured against the time range that the store fulfills orders. A calendar defines the store's fulfillment hours by day of week with the ability to define overrides for holidays. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default and by permissions. For time-based goals, the number of orders which have passed their delivery or shipment due date and are considered overdue is displayed. Enablement: This feature is controlled by permissions. In addition, a new Supply Chain Intelligence (SCI) dashboard displays performance metrics for a date range and group of stores. The default behavior is to show all stores for the last 30 days. Users have the ability to filter to a particular store and date range. Enablement: This feature will be automatically enabled as part of the market release. Related: Store Goals Configuration Store Fulfillment UI Resources Store Goals SCI Report Manhattan Active® Warehouse Management and Store Stores can now receive customer (ship to store) orders that are shipped via parcel carriers from a Manhattan Active® Warehouse Management distribution center without integration effort. Enablement: This feature will be automatically enabled as part of the market release. Related: Receiving Process RFID Picking Associates can now pick by reading RFID tags with a handheld RFID reader instead of by scanning item barcodes. This functionality is available for both pickup and shipment orders. RFID tag capture still occurs during the Capture EPC Tag and Packing processes (for pickup and shipment orders, respectively.) Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Picking Process Store RFID Store RFID Configuration Manhattan Active® Store Inventory Management Store-Initiated Transfer - Location-Specific Transfer Types Transfer types can now be limited to a list of location ID(s) so that store associates are only able to choose locations that the transfer type is relevant to. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Store-Initiated Transfer Process Store-Initiated Transfer Configuration RFID Adjust Inventory Multiple Tags The Adjust Inventory function can now read multiple RFID tags during an adjustment. In the event that an item is unintentionally added to the adjustment, the store associate can remove the item before submitting. Enablement:  This feature will be automatically enabled as part of the market release. Related: Adjust Store Inventory Process RFID View Inventory Associates can now select an item in the View Inventory UI by reading an RFID tag with a handheld RFID reader. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: View Store Inventory Process Store RFID Store RFID Configuration Store Common RFID Bluetooth Reader Management iOS users can now disconnect or connect to a previously connected handheld RFID reader. Enablement: This feature is now available and is planned to be automatically enabled as part of the upcoming 25.1 market release. If you would like to opt in early, contact your Manhattan representative. Related: Store RFID Store RFID - Custom Devices Store Common UI Resources