# Manual Minimum 

**Permalink:** manual-minimum
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning/Process &amp; Configuration Guides/Replenishment/Factors affecting SOQ/Manual Minimum 
**Content Length:** 26,578 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:08:15.241372

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning››Process & Configuration Guides››Replenishment››Factors affecting SOQ ››Manual Minimum Manual Minimum Previous I Next OverviewProcess FlowConfigurationsHow to set up a Manual Minimum?UIs and EntitiesServicesRelated Articles Overview A manual minimum sets a lower limit for the suggested order quantity (SOQ). Manual minimum is used to maintain a specific quantity of inventory (in units or days of supply) for an item. This will ensure that inventory levels don't fall below a certain threshold.  Manual minimum should be used only when necessary, as excessive manual minimum quantities could lead to excess inventory that isn't needed to achieve your service goals. Process Flow Configure Manual Minimum: Refer How to set up Manual Minimum for more details. If the Manual Minimum is to be defined in terms of Units, then set the attribute to "Minimum". If the Manual Minimum is to be defined in terms of Days, then set the attribute to "Minimum". "Use Minimum Days" will take precedence if both "Minimum" and "Minimum Days" are set. Compute SOQ (using Manual Minimum): Following are the valid Minimum Quantity type: No Manual Minimum Type Order Point Out of Stock Minimum Display Stock Minimum Minimum Quantity type - No Manual Minimum: In this scenario, regardless of the Minimum Days/Units entered, the minimum quantity will always be set to zero and this doesn't affect the SOQ. Minimum Quantity type - Order Point: If the Minimum Quantity Type is set to 'Order Point', then the "Minimum Quantity" configured replaces the calculated order point (in units). The order point will change (capped) as per the quantity configured in the Manual Minimum and the Final SOQ will also change. If the Final SOQ is less than the minimum quantity, then the SOQ will be changed to the minimum quantity configured. Usually used for slow movers in combination with the Manual Maximum Type set to Order Up to Level. This sets a "Min-Max” in Replenishment for a static order point and order-up-to-point. Note : If engine.use.manual.min.order.point is set to "true," the manual minimum will replace the order point only if it is greater than the calculated order point. Minimum Quantity Type as Order Point Without Manual Minimum Minimum Quantity = 50 Minimum Quantity = 231 Minimum Quantity = 350 Safety Stock 33.4 33.4 33.4 33.4 Order Point 133.6 50 231 350 Final SOQ (units) 230 230 231 350 Minimum Quantity type - Display Stock Minimum: If the Minimum Quantity Type is set to 'Display Stock Minimum', then the "Minimum Quantity" is configured as the Order point= (Order Point + Configured quantity) and the Final SOQ will also change. If the value configured is greater than the safety stock, then the Satefy stock is updated with the Manual Min. Minimum Quantity Type as Display Stock Minimum Without Manual Minimum Minimum Quantity =50 Minimum Quantity =100 Minimum Quantity = 200 Safety Stock 176.6 176.6 176.6 200 Order Point 597 647 697 797 Outl 650 650 697 797 Final SOQ (units) 650 650 697 797 Minimum Quantity type - Out of Stock Point Minimum: If type is set to 'Out of Stock Point Minimum', then the "Minimum Quantity" value configured is greater than the calculated Safety Stock, then Order point will increase, else, it will not increase. The Final SOQ will also change. Order Point is: (OP + Difference between Safety Stock and Configured Quantity) The Safety Stock should be equal to the manual minimum qty and the final SOQ should be greater than the manual minimum qty. Minimum Quantity Type as Out of Stock Without Manual Minimum Minimum Quantity =50 Minimum Quantity =100 Minimum Quantity = 200 Safety Stock 89.8 89.8 100 200 Order Point 389.8 389.8 400 500 OUTL 390 390 400 500 Final SOQ (units) 510 510 520 620 Impact of Min Quantity Confidence on SOQ: The Minimum Quantity Confidence provides control over whether the user wants to consider demand variability when applying the manual minimum. The quantity confidence is entered as a percentage, which indicates the percentage of time that needs to keep the stock level above the set level, given the demand variability. When the SKUs forecast has a standard deviation greater than 0, a higher value confidence would result in a higher value being used as the effective minimum to protect the minimum against variance in demand. A higher minimum quantity confidence (for example, 100%) will result in a higher Manual Minimum level. It will try to cover more of the SKU’s demand variability when calculating the manual minimum. A lower minimum quantity confidence (for example, 20%) will result in a lower Manual Minimum level. It will try to cover a smaller portion of the SKU’s demand variability when calculating the manual minimum. If you set the minimum quantity confidence to zero, it does not consider the variability. Minimum Quantity Confidence : The Final SOQ increases as the target confidence increases. Type: Display Stock Minimum Minimum Quantity Type as Display Stock Minimum Without Manual Minimum Minimum Quantity =500 Target Confidence= 10% Minimum Quantity =500 Target Confidence= 50% Minimum Quantity = 500 Target Confidence= 100% Safety Stock 269.4 269.4 269.4 269.4 Order Point 387.9 573 607 1,159 Order Up to Level 442.6 573 607 1,159 Final SOQ (units) 440 572 605 1,166 Type: Out of Stock Point Minimum Minimum Quantity Type as Out of Stock Point Without Manual Minimum Minimum Quantity =500 Target Confidence= 10% Minimum Quantity =500 Target Confidence= 50% Minimum Quantity = 600 Target Confidence= 100% Safety Stock 269.4 500 500 600 Order Point 387.9 618.5 618.5 618.5 Order Up to Level 442.6 673.3 673.3 773.3 Final SOQ (units) 440 671 671 781 Type: Order Point Minimum Quantity Type Order Point Without Manual Minimum Minimum Quantity =500 Target Confidence= 10% Minimum Quantity =500 Target Confidence= 50% Minimum Quantity = 600 Target Confidence= 100% Safety Stock 269.4 269.4 269.4 269.4 Order Point 387.9 500 500 600 Order Up to Level 442.6 500 500 600 Final SOQ (units) 440 506 506 605 Configurations How to set up a Manual Minimum? The Manual Minimum can be configured at Item location Level. {{url}}/itemlocation/api/itemlocation/itemLocation/save { "ItemId": "Item1", "LocationId": "Store1", " Minimum":"500", "UseMinimumDays": false, "MinimumDays": null, "MinimumQuantityType": "ORDER POINT", "MinimumQuantityConfidence": 10, } Valid Minimum Quantity Types are: NO MANUAL MINIMUM DISPLAY STOCK MINIMUM ORDER POINT OUT OF STOCK POINT MINIMUM UIs and Entities The configuration UIs mentioned in this document are listed in the following table, along with information to navigate to the API documentation. UI Name Component Group Seed Data Present? Seed Data Profile Services The APIs listed in the following table are referenced in this document. Refer to the API documentation for additional details on each service. Service Component Group Service Endpoint Manual Minimum Item Location {{url}}/itemlocation/api/itemlocation/itemLocation/save Related Articles Order Pack OptimizationReview CycleMinimum Purchase QuantityPlanned DemandCommitted QuantityConvenience PackLead TimeManual MaximumOrder Point AdjustmentBuying Multiple