# Manual Maximum

**Permalink:** manual-maximum
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning/Process &amp; Configuration Guides/Replenishment/Factors affecting SOQ/Manual Maximum
**Content Length:** 23,423 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:08:16.795553

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning››Process & Configuration Guides››Replenishment››Factors affecting SOQ ››Manual Maximum Manual Maximum Previous I Next Process FlowConfigurationsHow to set up a Manual Maximum?UIs and EntitiesServicesTroubleshootingRelated ArticlesOverview Overview A manual maximum sets an upper limit for the Suggested Order Quantity (SOQ), ensuring that the SOQ never exceeds this maximum limit. This is particularly useful to control inventory levels and prevent overstocking. Use manual maximums when required, since low manual maximum quantities or days of supply may result in more frequent ordering. If you use a manual minimum and manual maximum, the manual maximum quantity must be greater than or equal to the manual minimum quantity. Process Flow Set up Manual Maximum: Refer to How to set up Manual Maximum for more details. Setting the "Maximum" is required to specify it in terms of "Units." The "Maximum Days" needs to be configured in terms of 'Days', If you have configured both Maximum and Maximum Days, "Use Maximum Days" will determine which system should consider. Only 'Days' take precedence. Compute SOQ (using Maximum): Following are the valid Minimum Quantity type: No Manual Maximum Type Order Point Up To Level Shelf Life Maximum Storage Space Maximum Minimum Quantity type - No Manual Maximum: In this scenario, regardless of the maximum Days/Units entered, the maximum quantity will always be set to zero and this doesn't affect the SOQ. Maximum Quantity type - Order Up To Level: If the Maximum Quantity Type is set to 'Order Up To Level', then the "Maximum Quantity" configured replaces the calculated order up to level (in units). The Order up to level value in terms of Days of supply for an Item is equal to the Days of supply configured in Manual Maximum when the manual max is of type Order up to level. The predefined values remain unchanged if the quantity is configured higher than the final SOQ value. Maximum Quantity Type as Order Up To Level Without Manual Maximum Quantity =50 Quantity =100 Quantity =200 Quantity = 350 Target Confidence 25%and 50% Safety Stock 128.6 128.6 128.6 128.6 128.6 Order Up to Level 318.3 50 100 200 318.3 Order Point 291.2 50 100 200 291.2 Final SOQ (units) 319 50 100 200 319 No Changes in SOQ values. Maximum Quantity type - Shelf Life Maximum If the Maximum Quantity Type is set to 'Shelf Life Maximum', then the "Maximum Quantity" configured is the shelf life in days of supply. The Final SOQ will decrease as the value mentioned in the days of supply in manual maximum when the type of storage space maximum. Minimum Quantity Type as Shelf Life Maximum Without Manual Minimum Days of Supply =15 Days of Supply =10 Quantity = 5 Safety Stock 128.6 128.6 128.6 128.6 Order Up to Level 318.3 318.3 318.3 318.3 Order Point 291.2 291.2 291.2 291.2 Final SOQ (units) 319 298 230 162 Maximum Quantity type - Storage Space Maximum: If the type is set to 'Storage Space Maximum', this value is the storage maximum in days of supply. It creates an upper limit for the SOQ so that the receipt of the new order will not be larger than the storage space, considering the demand during the lead time. The final SOQ will  be equal to the value mentioned in quantity in manual maximum when the type of storage space maximum. The predefined values remain unchanged if the quantity is configured higher than the final SOQ value. Maximum Quantity Type as Storage Space Maximum Without Manual Minimum Quantity =50 Quantity =100 Quantity = 200 Quantity = 320 Safety Stock 128.6 128.6 128.6 128.6 128.6 Order Up to Level 318.3 318.3 318.3 318.3 318.3 Order Point 291.2 291.2 291.2 291.2 291.2 Final SOQ (units) 319 50 100 200 319 Impact of Max Quantity Confidence on SOQ: The Target Confidence value controls the percentage of the chance that the storage space is large enough, based on the demand variability within the lead time period. If you do not set a target confidence, it does not consider the demand variability. The target probability that the new arrivals fit in the storage space or the percentage of goods that are not expected to spoil. As the confidence level decreases, the maximum quantity coverage increases. The closer the confidence level is to 100%, the maximum quantity coverage decreases.  If you are willing to accept more spoilage, the amount you order increases. Target Confidence : The Final SOQ decreases as the target confidence increases. Type: Order Up To Level - No Changes in SOQ. Type: Shelf Life Maximum Minimum Quantity Type as Display Shelf Life Maximum Without Manual Minimum Days of Supply = 1 Target Confidence= 25% Days of Supply = 1 Target Confidence= 50% Final SOQ (units) 319 108 68 Order Up to Level 318.3 318.3 318.3 Order Point 291.2 291.2 291.2 Safety Stock 128.6 128.6 128.6 Target Confidence : The Final SOQ decreases as the target confidence increases. Type: Storage Space Maximum Minimum Quantity Type as Display Storage Space Maximum Without Manual Minimum Days of Supply = 1 Target Confidense = 25% Days of Supply = 1 Target Confidence= 50% Final SOQ (units) 319 13 0 Order Up to Level 318.3 318.3 318.3 Order Point 291.2 291.2 291.2 Safety Stock 128.6 128.6 128.6 Target Confidence : The Final SOQ decreases as the target confidence increases. Configurations How to set up a Manual Maximum? The Manual Maximum can be configured at Item location Level. {{url}}/itemlocation/api/itemlocation/itemLocation/save { "ItemId": "Item1", "LocationId": "Store1", "Maximum:"60", "MaximumDays": "10", "UseMaximumDays": "true", "MaximumQuantityType": "SHELF LIFE MAXIMUM", "MaximumQuantityConfidence": "25" } Valid Maximum Quantity Types are: NO MANUAL MAXIMUM ORDER UP TO LEVEL SHELF LIFE MAXIMUM STORAGE SPACE MAXIMUM UIs and Entities The configuration UIs mentioned in this document are listed in the following table, along with information to navigate to the API documentation. UI Name Component Group Seed Data Present? Seed Data Profile Services The APIs listed in the following table are referenced in this document. Refer to the API documentation for additional details on each service. Service Component Group Service Endpoint Manual Maximum Item Location {{url}}/itemlocation/api/itemlocation/itemLocationSource/save Troubleshooting What's the purpose of "Target Confidence" for manual maximum type: Shelf Life Maximum? Target Confidence is a configuration available for Manual Maximum of type - Shelf Life. This field accepts percentage values 0 to 100%. It controls the percentage of inventory that would remain without being spoiled out of the total inventory that we may hold. On providing the value it would limit the SOQ such that the loss due spoilage can be avoided. The spoilage may arise due to demand variability. Shelf Life Maximum - Creates an upper limit for the SOQ so that all the goods do not expire during their shelf life or a limited spoilage rate. It is usually used for perishable items. The Target Confidence value controls the percentage of the items that are not spoiled. The calculation assumes that all the existing stock and on-order stock have full shelf-lives. If you do not set the target confidence, Replenishment for Open Systems does not consider the demand variability and the spoilage rate is zero. Can you provide more information about the target confidence? The target confidence impacts the final SOQ. The Manual Max configuration can be interpreted as how much percentile you want the application to consider within current lead-time based on demand variance of the SKU. As an example, if the SKU demand variance is zero, then entering target confidence of 100% have no impact on final SOQ. The lesser the demand variance (with respect to the forecast), the lower the impact of the target confidence on final SOQ. Clearing the target confidence would mean that there is no demand variability or spoilage. In other words, increasing target confidence from 50% to 90% would require us to protect the inventory from exceeding its life, when demand is much lower than forecast. This would reduce the final order quantity. Related Articles Committed Quantity Buying Multiple Manual Minimum Order Pack Optimization Order Point Adjustment Review Cycle Minimum Purchase Quantity Lead Time Convenience Pack