# Master Data Guide - Supply Chain Planning

**Permalink:** master-data-guide-supply-chain-planning
**Path:** Administrator Tools/Master Data Guides/Master Data Guide - Supply Chain Planning
**Content Length:** 43,196 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:11:15.832595

---

Home ››Administrator Tools››Master Data Guides ››Master Data Guide - Supply Chain Planning Master Data Guide - Supply Chain Planning Master Data Guide - Supply Chain PlanningOrganizationsUIs and EntitiesLocationsLocation Sub TypesLocation Value Added Service TypesLocation Time ZonesUIs and EntitiesSecurityUsersUser RolesNew RolesAccess ResourcesGrantsUIs and EntitiesProfilesProvisioning ProfileProvisioning Profiles for Project PhasesManaging ProfilesUIs and EntitiesCountry configurationManage Teams Organizations Organizations represent legal entities, such as companies and brands. Each organization has a unique set of application configuration, transactional data such as inventory, and users. All transactional data are associated with one organization. This organization is used to control access to each transactional entity. For example, a customer service representative (CSR) who is a member of brand A can only view the inventory for brand A, while a CSR who is a member of brand B can only view the inventory of brand B. An organizational hierarchy is defined where every organization, except one, is a subordinate to one other organization. This hierarchy is used to model the parent-child relationship between a parent company and a child brand. For example, if XYZ company has three brands, brand A, brand B, and brand C, then the parent organization XYZ has three child organizations: brand A, brand B, and brand C. Each brand can have its own set of application configuration, transactional data, and users. A sample organizational structure is illustrated above. When an organizational hierarchy is defined, the following occurs: Transactional data can be viewed for all child organizations if the user is given access to the organization. For example, if a user of XYZ company logs in, they can view the inventory for XYZ company, brand A, brand B, and brand C. The user can toggle between organizations by using the dropdown menu at top of the screen. Configuration can be inherited from the parent organization, or a unique configuration can be defined for the child organization. For each organization, an address and contacts, such as the store escalations contact or distribution center (DC) manager contact, can be defined. Organizations can be configured by interface import or in the Organizations UI. UIs and Entities The configuration UIs mentioned in this section are listed in the table below, along with the entities. UI Name Component Entity Name Seed Data Present? Seed data profile Organizations Organization Organization No N/A Locations A location represents a physical facility. Each location can be configured as a DC, store, or supplier. Locations can be configured via import or in the Locations UI. For each location, the following can be defined: Location address Location contact information Fulfillment attributes, such as whether the location accepts returns, allows pick up at the store, etc. Location VAS options, to define which value added services (VAS), each location can perform. For instance store A may be able to gift wrap items, while store B can gift wrap and monogram items. Location Sub Types Location sub types further categorizes DCs, stores, and vendors to provide flexibility in configuration. For example, stores can be divided into high volume and low volume stores, vendors may be broken into drop ship and non-drop ship vendors, and DCs may be broken into e-commerce and retail DCs. This can be configured on the Location Sub Types UI. Location Value Added Service Types Value added service types define the list of possible value added services which can be performed across all stores. See the item value added services section for details about the master list of VAS types. This can be configured on the Location Value Added Service Types UI. Note: Extension work is required to leverage the Value Added Service Types during the Order fulfillment process. Location Time Zones Refer to Appendix for a list of time zone values supported by the application. UIs and Entities The configuration UIs mentioned in this section are listed in the table below, along with the entities: UI Name Component Entity Name Seed Data Present? Seed data profile Locations Organization Location No N/A Location Sub Types Organization LocationSubType Yes Base Location Value Added Service Types Organization LocationVASOption No N/A Security Users A user represents a person that interacts with and uses the system, such as a store associate or CSR. Users can be created via interface import or via the Users UI. Each user is assigned to one parent organization, and a user can optionally be granted access to child organizations. Additionally, each user is assigned to a locale, which controls the language in which the application is displayed. It is recommended that the User Id should be specified in the email format. An email-based user Id will allow easy migration to an AD based authentication. To authenticate a user in the system instead of an external identity provider, set the identity type of user as 'Database' and user type as 'Human'. The system sends an email to the address specified in the email or email2 field. The email contains the user id and the link to set the password for the first time. The link to set password expires after the specified time, the forgot password option can be used to resend the email. Users may set passwords using natural language characters and the following special characters: ("^(?=.[_`~!@#$^&()-=+[]{}\|:;,.<>?/])."). Users can optionally be assigned to one or more locations, which grants the user permission to view transactions only for those store locations. For example, if a store associate works only at store A, then the associate user should be assigned to store A. If a regional manager works with stores A, B, C, and D, then the regional manager user should be assigned to stores A, B, C, and D. Upon logging into the store application, the regional manager selects from a list of stores A, B, C, and D, and transactional data are shown for the selected store. Users can be configured via interface import or by using the Users UI. The following table contains example users: User Id Parent Org IdUser Location User Locale john@a.com OrgA OrgA: StoreA en paul@b.com OrgB OrgB:StoreB, OrgB:StoreC, OrgB: StoreD en User Roles Each user is assigned a role to perform. This role grants the user permission to perform actions on certain entities in the application. For example, an inventory control role has permissions to view and edit inventory, while a store fulfillment specialist role has permissions to pick, pack, and ship orders. A role can be used across multiple users. Roles can be configured by navigating to User Roles UI. The following table contains example roles: Role Id Organization Id CSR OrgA Fulfillment Admin OrgB Store Associate OrgC Store Manager OrgA Roles can be shared from parent organizations. This feature enables roles to be shared across organizations. Once a role is shared, then the role is maintained by the parent company. For example, if XYZ company creates a CSR role that brand B inherits, then the updates made by XYZ company to their CSR role are reflected in brand B's CSR role. The below diagram contains an example of how inherited roles can be used by child organizations: New Roles When creating new roles, add any of the grants listed below as needed: Grants Details *::config::admin This grant will give a user access to all backend APIs for add/update/delete actions on all configuration entities. *::config::read This grant will give a user access to all backend APIs to view all configuration entities. *::transaction::admin This grant will give a user access to all backend APIs for add/update/delete actions on all transaction entities. *::transaction::read This grant will give a user access to all backend APIs to view all transaction entities. ai-uifacade::view This grant will give the user access to view the uifacade UI. The user must have this grant in order to view any uifacade menu options (ex. common config UIs.). In addition to this grant, the user stills need separate permissions in order to view specific uifacade menu options. Access Resources An access resource is a combination of an entity and an action that is performed on the entity. Example resources include approve supply, release supply, read inventory, and create or update inventory. Types of resource actions include: Create or update, which includes create, save, update, and import for an entity Read, which includes search, get, and export for an entity Delete Any entity-specific actions, such as approve or release Resources are defined in the format "ComponentName::EntityName::ChildEntityName::Pre-ChildEntityName::....::Action." The resourceId always begins with a component name, followed by a sequence of entity names, and finally ending with action. To control access to REST services, resources can optionally be defined with a URL. If a resource is defined with a URL, then both the UI and the REST service permissions are governed by the resource entry, unless a separate UI entry exists. If a resource is defined without a URL, then the resource controls only the UI. The property ComponentRouteName should be populated for the resource with the value of the zuul route name of the component. Resources are predefined in the system and can be viewed via the Access Resources UI. The following table contains example resources: Resource ID Resource Description URL ComponentRouteName ai-inventory::transaction::admin Resource for creating and updating inventory /ai-inventory/api/ai-inventory/inventory/save ai-inventory ai-product::config::admin Resource for creating creating and updating products /ai-product/api/ai-product/product/save ai-product aiui::aiui_allocation::allocation::approve Resource for the Approve button in UI. ai-uifacade aiui::aiui_allocation::allocation::release Resource for the Approve button in UI. ai-uifacade For configuration screens, that are a part of ai-uifacade (generated UI), the pattern of Resource ID names is as follows. Resource ID Resource Description Scope of control aiui::{component name}::{function}::read Read access to the config UI Enables the menu entry aiui::{component name}::{function}::createupdate Allows you to create or update records in the config UI ADD button, SAVE button aiui::{component name}::{function}::delete Allows you to delete records in the config UI DELETE button aiui::{component                                                                    name}::{function}::metadata Allows you to retrieve metadata for the records in the config UI. Extended attributes (attributes added by PSO) for the entity/component, if applicable. Grants To assign a resource to a role, a grant is used. For example, an allocator role has permission to approve supply, so they are assigned the approve supply resource via a grant. Grants can be imported via the interface or configured in the User Roles UI. If a user has access to more than one location, then the grants associated with the user's role for the parent organization of the selected location are applicable. All the options on left navigation panel and on the landing page are displayed based on grants. UIs and Entities The configuration UIs mentioned in this section are listed in the table below, along with the entities: UI Name Component Entity Name Seed Data Present? Seed data profile Grants Organization Grant No N/A User Roles Organization Role Yes System; can be copied but not deleted Users Organization User No N/A (System Admin only) Profiles A profile is a set of data that can be shared by one or more organizations. With many enterprises having multiple brands and thousands of stores with unique business requirements, managing configuration across each of these organizations can be a challenge. To ease this process, profiles can be used to share configurations across stores and brands. Many omni-channel implementations are completed in multiple phases, and configurations often need to evolve from one phase to another. Profiles can be used to seamlessly switch configurations from one phase to another. This configuration switch can also be used for seasonality if business requirements change by season. Some examples of data switching include: Brand A currently uses inventory profile 1 for the first phase of a rollout, wherein only DC inventory and ship to home are supported. Brand A is transitioning to a second phase where store inventory, pick up in store, and ship from store will be supported, so brand A switches from profile 1 to profile 2. Brand B uses item catalog profile 1 for the summer season catalog but switches to profile 2 for the fall season catalog. Each configuration or master data entity is associated with one profile. This profile is used to retrieve the correct configuration for a given organization. For example, if brand A has an active product profile A, then when a user of brand A is searching across products, only product records with profile A are retrieved. Profiles are configured in the Profiles UI. Profiles are broken up by functional area or profile purpose. Profile purposes are predefined in the system, and each configuration table is assigned a profile purpose. For example, all configuration tables which handle product configuration are grouped into one profile purpose for product configuration. Each profile purpose is defined with the three-letter component abbreviation followed by the profile purpose name. For example, the product configuration profile purpose is formatted as "prd::product". Some example profile purposes are listed below. Profile purposes can be viewed in the Profile Purposes UI. Profile Purpose Description prd::product Contains configuration pertaining to products loc::location Contains location master data cpl::prodloc Contains configuration related to product-location Note: For copying profile data, this task is performed in the background, since the amount of data being copied can be significant. A push notification will be sent to your browser upon the completion of that copy process. However, this push notification will not work if you are running in 'incognito' or 'private' mode. Provisioning Profile Since multiple profiles can be defined for a profile purpose, one profile must be made active for each organization, so that the application knows which set of data to use. Provisioning profile is a construct which helps the run time system determine the profile that is being used for each profile purpose. Each provisioning profile contains one profile from each profile purpose. For an organization, only one provisioning profile can be active at any given time. During runtime, when the system needs to figure out which configuration record is relevant, two pieces of data are known: profile purpose (the configuration being read) and the organization context (the organization for which this configuration is being fetched). The system uses the active provisioning profile to determine the profile that is mapped to the purpose and organization combination. Provisioning profiles are configured in the Provisioning Profiles UI. For example, the solution is being implemented at XYZ company, which owns two retail chains: brand A and brand B. The two chains do not sell common items, manage their inventory separately, and have unique payment processing requirements. However, the brands share a common set of data. XYZ company wants to drive efficiency by implementing a single commerce platform, but they also want the brands to have the flexibility to manage configurations per their own business requirements. When modeling these entities in the system, XYZ company defines three organizations: XYZ company, brand A, and brand B. Brands A and B are defined as secondaries of XYZ company. Organizations Organization Parent Organization XYZ Company Brand A XYZ Company Brand B XYZ Company Brand A creates one profile for its business, and brand B creates a separate profile for its business. Both brand A and brand B own these profiles, so all configuration within each profile can be managed by the separate brands. A separate profile is created for XYZ company so that any configurations which need to be shared between brands A and B can be managed by the parent organization. Also, a parent organization can manage configurations owned by their child organizations. Profiles Profile Organization Brand A Brand A Brand B Brand B XYZ XYZ Company A provisioning profile is defined for each brand. A separate provisioning profile is defined for XYZ company to manage any shared configuration. Provisioning Profile Provisioning Profile Organization Id Active Brand A Phase 1 Brand A Y Brand B Phase 1 Brand B Y XYZ XYZ Company Y Each brand then selects their respective profile as the active profile for all profile purposes. Provisioning Profile Details Provisioning Profile IdProfile Purpose Profile Brand A Phase 1 prd::product BrandA Brand A Phase 1 cpl::prodloc BrandA Brand A Phase 1 loc::location XYZ Brand B Phase 1 prd::product BrandB Brand B Phase 1 cpl::prodloc BrandB Brand B Phase 1 loc::location XYZ XYZ loc::location XYZ This configuration provides the flexibility for each brand to manage its own configurations for product and locations. But for a single set of product-location configuration, it to be shared by the brands. Provisioning Profiles for Project Phases An organization can create multiple provisioning profiles, but typically only one is needed per project phase. Note: In the landing page and the configuration UIs, the profile drop-down in the screen header selects the Provisioning Profile. Managing Profiles Seed data which is provided out of the box is categorized into one of three profiles: Profile Description Examples Base The Base profile stores all the entities for which seed data is provided. Seed data is provided so that on application startup, the minimal configuration is required before the application can be used. This "base" profile cannot be used in any provisioning profile other than provisioning profile belonging to the “System” organization. Upgrades can be made to seed data without impacting active configuration because the seed data in the Base profile is not used as is for active configuration. For the new Provisioning profile, perform Copy Provisioning Profile action where a copy of seed data will be copied to the user mentioned profile. Note:  The 'Base' profile replaces the previously used 'Retail' profile. • Inventory type System Entities for which seed data is provided but cannot be modified. This is used for application constants. • Location type System Augmentable Entities for which seed data is provided but cannot be modified. Additional entries can be added, updated, or deleted. UIs and Entities The configuration UIs mentioned in this section are listed in the table below, along with the entities. UI Name Component Entity Name Seed Data Present? Seed data profile Profiles Organization Profile Yes Base Provisioning Profiles Organization ProvisioningProfile Yes Base Country configuration The country configuration entity belongs to the base profile with profile purpose org::countryConfig. It contains seed data of all the countries present in the organization component out of the box. The country configuration entity is at the country level and contains the below information: IsPostalCodeMandatory: boolean. if true, then the postal code is mandatory in all addresses for that country. If false, then the postal code is not mandatory for all addresses in that country. IsStateMandatory: boolean if true, then the state is mandatory for all addresses in that country If false, then the state is not mandatory for all addresses in that country There is no UI for country configuration but it can be accessed using the following API: Purpose Method API Get the full list of country configuration supported GET {{url}}/organization/api/organization/countryConfiguration?size=300 Update the country configuration if the postal code or state regular is updated POST {{url}}/organization/api/organization/countryConfiguration/save Get the country configuration for one county GET {{url}}/organization/api/organization/countryConfiguration/countryId/countryId/<countryID> Manage Teams Teams can be created from the ‘Team' UI by accessing the path ‘ Manage Teams’ menu entry under the Organization configuration’. To be able to view teams in your organization, you will have to provide the Organization ID while creating the team. Once the team is created for the organization, users can be assigned to the team by selecting the user Id(s) that will belong to the team. Users can navigate to teams' UI  to create and manage teams. An allocator or manager can be part of multiple teams. Admin and Manager can access this screen.