# Master Data Guide - Omni

**Permalink:** master-data-guide
**Path:** Administrator Tools/Master Data Guides/Master Data Guide - Omni
**Content Length:** 95,266 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:11:10.964471

---

Home ››Administrator Tools››Master Data Guides ››Master Data Guide - Omni Master Data Guide - Omni OrganizationsUIs and EntitiesLocationsLocation Sub TypesLocation Value-Added Service TypesUIs and EntitiesLocation SchedulingSecurityUsersUser RolesNew Roles Access ResourcesGrantsCopy RoleUIs and EntitiesData Access TagsProfilesProvisioning ProfileProvisioning Profiles for Project PhasesManaging ProfilesUIs and EntitiesItemsHow to Bulk Upload ItemsLocalized Item Attributes:Item Value Added ServicesItem CategoriesItem CatalogItem Code TypesUIs and EntitiesCustomersCustomer ID GenerationCustomer De-ActivationPublishing Customers to External SystemsCarriersRating and SchedulingCarrier ZonesCountry configurationImplementation FlavorHow to move items from parent to child when items and supply are at different org levels This guide describes the common configuration that is used across applications and is referenced from individual configuration guides. Organizations Organizations represent legal entities such as companies and brands. Each organization has a unique set of application configurations, transactional data such as orders, and users. All transactional data is associated with one organization. This organization is used to control access to each transactional entity. For example, a customer service representative (CSR) who is a member of brand A can only view orders for brand A, while a CSR who is a member of brand B can only view orders of brand B. An organizational hierarchy is defined where every organization, except one, is a subordinate to one other organization. This hierarchy is used to model the parent-child relationship between a parent company and a child brand. For example, if the XYZ company has three brands, brand A, brand B, and brand C, then the parent organization XYZ has three child organizations: brand A, brand B, and brand C. Each brand can have its own set of application configuration, transactional data, and users. A sample organizational structure is illustrated above. When an organizational hierarchy is defined, the following occurs: Transactional data can be viewed for all child organizations, if the user is given access to the organization. For example, if a user of XYZ company logs in, they can view orders for XYZ company, brand A, brand B, and brand C. The user can toggle between organizations by using the dropdown menu atop the screen. Configuration can be inherited from the parent organization, or a unique configuration can be defined for the child organization. For example, XYZ company has parcel shipping data which is shared by brand A and brand B, since they are both in the same geographical region, so brand A and brand B inherit the parcel shipping configuration from parent company XYZ. However, brand C is in a geographic region which requires different parcel carriers, so brand C has a unique set of parcel shipping configuration and does not inherit from parent company XYZ. For each organization, an address, and contacts, such as the store escalations contact or distribution center (DC) manager contact, can be defined. Organizations can be configured by interface import or in the Organizations UI. UIs and Entities The configuration UIs mentioned in this section are listed in the following table, along with the entities. UI Name Component Entity Name Seed Data Present? Seed data profile Organizations Organization Organization No N/A In the organization naming convention, space and special characters are not allowed except "underscore “_” and the hyphen “-“. Locations A location represents a physical facility. Each location can be configured as a DC, store, or supplier. Locations can be configured via import or in the Locations UI. For each location, the following can be defined: Location address Location contact information Fulfillment attributes, such as whether the location accepts returns, allows pick-up at store, etc. Location VAS options, to define which value-added services (VAS) each location can perform. For instance, store A may be able to gift wrap items, while store B can gift wrap and monogram items. Location Sub Types Location sub types further categorize DCs, stores, and vendors to provide flexibility in configuration. For example, stores can be divided into high volume and low volume stores, vendors may be broken into drop ship and non-drop ship vendors, and DCs may be broken into e-commerce and retail DCs. This can be configured on the Location Sub Types UI. Location Value-Added Service Types Value-added service types define the list of possible value-added services which can be performed across all stores. See item value added services section for details about the master list of VAS types. This can be configured on the Location Value Added Service Types UI. Note: Extension work is required to leverage the Value Added Service Types during Order promising and fulfillment process. VAS constrained allocation is not supported by promising. Location Time Zones Refer to Appendix the list of time zone values supported by the application. UIs and Entities The configuration UIs mentioned in this section are listed in the following table along with the entities: UI Name Component Entity Name Seed Data Present? Seed data profile Locations Organization Location No N/A Location Sub Types Organization LocationSubType Yes Base Location Value Added Service Types Organization LocationVASOption No N/A Location Scheduling Most of the location level factors impacting scheduling are configured in the inventory location: Location opening hours Location processing time Location receipt time Carrier pick time - With some exceptions: If a user wants to configure a generic location, carrier pick time independent of delivery method, carrier or service level. Additional configurations like the location cut off time or the carrier pick time (in the exception cases from above) are located in the location scheduling. The location scheduling configuration allows the user to configure a cut off time and carrier pick time by delivery method/carrier and service level. If there is a match of delivery method/carrier/service level, order scheduling uses the location scheduling configuration. If there is no match, order scheduling falls back to the inventory location configuration for the carrier pick time. UI Name Component Entity Name Seed Data Present? Seed data profile Profile purpose Inventory location Inventory InventoryLocation No Base inv::locationConfiguration Location Scheduling Inventory LocationScheduling no Base inv::locationScheduling Security Users A user represents a person that interacts with and uses the system, such as a store associate or CSR. Users can be created via interface import or via the Users UI. Each user is assigned to one parent organization, and a user can optionally be granted access to child organizations. Additionally, each user is assigned to a locale, which controls the language in which the application is displayed. It is recommended that User Id should be specified in the email format. An email-based user Id will allow easy migration to an AD-based authentication. To authenticate a user in the system instead of an external identity provider, set the identity type of user as 'Database' and user type as 'Human'. The system sends an email to the address specified in the email or email2 field. The email contains the user id and the link to set the password for the first time. The link to the set password expires after the specified time, forgot password option can be used to resend the email. Users may set passwords using natural language characters and the following special characters: ("^(?=.[_`~!@#$^&()\\-=+\\[\\]{}\\\\|:;,.<>?/]).") Note: Users must be created in Active Omni irrespective of the authentication modes. Refer to the Authentication guide for more details. Users can optionally be assigned to one or more locations, which grants the user permission to view transactions only for those store locations. For example, if a store associate works only at store A, then the associate user should be assigned to store A. If a regional manager works with stores A, B, C, and D, then the regional manager user should be assigned to stores A, B, C, and D. Upon logging into the store application, the regional manager selects from a list of stores A, B, C, and D, and transactional data is shown for the selected store. Users can be configured via interface import or by using the Users UI. The following table contains examples of users: User Id Parent Org Id User Location User Locale john@a.com OrgA OrgA:StoreA en paul@b.com OrgB OrgB:StoreB, OrgB:StoreC, OrgB:StoreD en Users can optionally be assigned to one or more organizations, which grants the user permission to perform transactions in those organizations. For example, if a store associate works only at Brand A, then the user should be assigned to Brand A. If a regional manager works with  multiple brands ( Brand A and Brand B) then the regional manager user should be assigned to Brand A and Brand B Upon logging into the store application, the regional manager selects from a list of stores A, B, C, and D, and transactional data is shown for the selected store's parent organization. The roles assigned for that organization will be used for that session. For example, the user is Picker for Brand A but a sales associates for Brand B. If the selected store is attached to Brand A, he/she will access to pick orders alone. Use only lower cases for userId User Roles Each user is assigned a role to perform. This role grants the user permission to perform actions on certain entities in the application. For example, an inventory control role has permissions to view and edit inventory, while a store fulfillment specialist role has permissions to pick, pack, and ship orders. A role can be used by multiple users. Roles can be configured by navigating to User Roles UI. The following table contains example roles. Role Id Organization Id CSR OrgA Fulfillment Admin OrgB Store Associate OrgC Store Manager OrgA Roles can be shared from parent organizations. This feature enables roles to be shared across organizations. Once a role is shared, then the role is maintained by the parent company. For example, if XYZ company creates a CSR role that brand B inherits, then the updates that XYZ company makes to their CSR role are reflected in brand B's CSR role. The following diagram contains an example of how inherited roles can be used by child organizations. New Roles When creating new roles, add any of the grants listed in the following table: Grants Details *::config::admin This grant will give users access to all backend APIs for add/update/delete actions on all configuration entities. *::config::read This grant will give users access to all backend APIs to view all configuration entities. *::transaction::admin This grant will give users access to all backend APIs for add/update/delete actions on all transaction entities. *::transaction::read This grant will give users access to all backend APIs to view all transaction entities. omnifacade::view This grant will give the user access to view the omnifacade UI. The user must have this grant in order to view any omnifacade menu options (ex. common config UIs.) In addition to this grant, the user still needs separate permissions in order to view specific omnifacade menu options. Access Resources An access resource is a combination of an entity and an action which is performed on the entity. Example resources include cancel order, ship package, read fulfillment, and create or update fulfillment. Types of resource actions include: Create or update, which includes creating, saving, updating, and importing for an entity Read, which includes search, get, and export for an entity Delete Any entity-specific actions, such as ship or cancel Resources are defined in the format "ComponentName::EntityName::ChildEntityName::Pre-ChildEntityName::....::Action." The resourceId always begins with a component name, followed by a sequence of entity names, and finally ends with an action. For example, "Create Package" will have a resourceId "fulfillment::fulfillment::package::create." To control access to REST services, resources can optionally be defined with a URL. If a resource is defined with a URL, then both the UI and the REST service permissions are governed by the resource entry, unless a separate UI entry exists. If a resource is defined without a URL, then the resource controls only the UI. The property ComponentRouteName should be populated for the resource with the value of the zuul route name of the component. Resources are predefined in the system and can be viewed via the Access Resources UI. The following table contains example resources: Resource ID Resource Description URL ComponentRouteName storefacade::fulfillment::createorupdate Resource creating and updating fulfillments /storefacade/api/storefacade storefacade storefacade::fulfillment::package::createorupdate Resource for creating and updating packages /storefacade/api/storefacade/package/ storefacade ui-fulfillment::fulfillment::accept-button Resource for the Accept Fulfillment button in the UI storefacade::fulfillment:: package::ship Resource for the Ship Package button in the UI and the service /storefacade/api/storefacade/package/ship storefacade For configuration screens that are a part of masterdatafacade (generated UI), the pattern of Resource ID names is as follows: Resource ID Resource Description Scope of control masterdatafacade::{component name}::{function}::read Read access to the config UI Enables the menu entry masterdatafacade::{component name}::{function}::createupdate Allows you to create or update records in the config UI ADD button, SAVE button masterdatafacade::{component name}::{function}::delete Allows you to delete records in the config UI DELETE button masterdatafacade::{component name}::{function}::metadata Allows you to retrieve metadata for the records in the config UI Extended attributes (attributes added by PSO) for the entity/component, if applicable Grants To assign a resource to a role, a grant is used. For example, a store associate role has a permission to create package, so they are assigned the create package resource via a grant. Grants can be imported via interface or configured in the User Roles UI. If a user has access to more than one location, then the grants associated with the user's role for the parent organization of the selected location are applicable. For example, a user has access to store A with a role which has permission to print a pick list, and the user also has access to store B with a role which does not have permission to print a pick list. When the user is logged into store A, then the user can print pick lists, but if the user is logged into store B, then the user cannot print pick lists. All the options on the left navigation panel and in the landing page are displayed based on grants.  Resources for these options belong to masterdatafacade, omnifacade, or webtop. Resources for links to other facades belong to storefacade or customerengagementfacade. Copy Role An accessible role can be copied over to create a new role. Coping the role will copy over all associated grants to the new role. The new cloned role can be independently edited. UIs and Entities The configuration UIs mentioned in this section are listed in the following table, along with the entities: UI Name Component Entity Name Seed Data Present? Seed data profile Grants Organization Grant No N/A User Roles Organization Role Yes System; can be copied but not deleted Users Organization User No N/A (System Admin only) Data Access Tags Data access tags and Data access tag hierarchy  are a way to define the structure of tags in a parent / child relationship. Tags are configured as a part of the hierarchy. A Tag from a hierarchy can be assigned to a location and user and, based on the tags on user and location, the relevant locations are qualified as user-accessible locations.All tags under a parent Tag in the hierarchy are considered to find the assigned locations. Data Access Tag User Tag Location Tag USA-->Georgia-->Atlanta USA-->Florida User A- USA Location A - > Georgia User B - Florida Location B--> Florida User A will have access to both Location and Location B User B will have access to only Location B. To enable this functionality, add the following properties in component.properties file on component-organization: data.access.tags.enabled=true enable.data.access.tags.user.location=true load.user.locations.from.cache=true Enable the following feature flag for commonui-face: CP-1224#2023-09 Profiles A profile is a set of data which can be shared by one or more organizations. With many businesses having multiple brands and thousands of stores with unique business requirements, managing configuration across each of these organizations can be a challenge. To ease this process, profiles can be used to share configurations across stores and brands. Some examples of data sharing include: Brand A and brand B share a common set of customer data, so they share a common customer profile. However, brands A and B have unique item masters, so each brand has a unique item profile. Brand A and brand B share parcel carrier data, so they share a common shipping profile. Many omni-channel implementations are completed in multiple phases, and configurations often need to evolve from one phase to another. Profiles can be used to seamlessly switch configurations from one phase to another. This configuration switch can also be used for seasonality, if business requirements change by season. Some examples of data switching include: Brand A currently uses inventory profile 1 for the first phase of a rollout, wherein only DC inventory and ship to home are supported. Brand A is transitioning to a second phase where store inventory, pick up in store, and ship from store will be supported, so brand A switches from profile 1 to profile 2. Brand B uses item catalog profile 1 for the summer season catalog but switches to profile 2 for the fall season catalog. Each configuration or master data entity is associated with one profile. This profile is used to retrieve the correct configuration for a given organization. For example, if brand A has active item profile A, then when a user of brand A is searching across items, only item records with profile A are retrieved. Profiles are configured in the Profiles UI. Profiles are broken up by functional area, or profile purpose. Profile purposes are predefined in the system, and each configuration table is assigned a profile purpose. For example, all configuration tables which handle payment configuration are grouped into one profile purpose for payment configuration. Configuration tables which handle item data are grouped into one profile purpose for items. Each profile purpose is defined with a three-letter component abbreviation followed by the profile purpose name. For example, the payment configuration profile purpose is formatted as "pay::paymentConfiguration", while the item profile purpose is "itm::item." Examples of profile purposes are listed in the following table:  Profile purposes can be viewed in the Profile Purposes UI. Profile Purpose Description pcl::carrier Contains configuration pertaining to carriers itm::item Contains item master data ord::orderConfig Contains configuration related to orders, pricing, order modifications, and order publishing Note: For copying profile data, this task is performed in the background, since the amount of data being copied can be significant.  A push notification will be sent to your browser upon the completion of that copy process. However, this push notification will not work if you are running in 'incognito' or 'private' mode. Provisioning Profile Since multiple profiles can be defined for a profile purpose, one profile must be made active for each organization, so that the application knows which set of data to use. Provisioning profile is a construct which helps the run time system determine which profile is being used for each profile purpose. Each provisioning profile contains one profile for each profile purpose. For an organization, only one provisioning profile can be active at any given time. During runtime, when the system needs to figure out which configuration record is relevant, two pieces of data are known: profile purpose (the configuration being read) and the organization context (the organization for which this configuration is being fetched). The system uses the active provisioning profile to determine the profile which is mapped to that purpose and organization combination. Provisioning profiles are configured in the Provisioning Profiles UI. For example, the solution is being implemented at XYZ company, which owns two retail chains: brand A and brand B. The two chains do not sell common items, manage their inventory separately, and have unique payment processing requirements. However, the brands share a logistics department and share a common set of carriers for their outbound shipments. XYZ company wants to drive efficiency by implementing a single commerce platform, but they also want the brands to have flexibility to manage configurations per their own business requirements. When modeling these entities in the system, XYZ company defines three organizations: XYZ company, brand A, and brand B. Brands A and B are defined as secondaries of XYZ company. Organizations Organization Parent Organization XYZ Company Brand A XYZ Company Brand B XYZ Company Brand A creates one profile for its business, and brand B creates a separate profile for its business. Both brand A and brand B own these profiles, so all configurations within each profile can be managed by separate brands. A separate profile is created for XYZ company, so that any configurations which need to be shared between brands A and B can be managed by the parent organization. Also, a parent organization can manage configurations owned by their child organizations. Profiles Profile Organization BrandA BrandA BrandB BrandB XYZ XYZ Company A provisioning profile is defined for each brand. A separate provisioning profile is defined for XYZ company to manage any shared configuration. Provisioning Profiles Provisioning Profile Id Organization Id Active? Brand A Phase 1 Brand A Y Brand B Phase 1 Brand B Y XYZ XYZ Company Y Each brand then selects their respective profile as the active profile for all profile purposes. Provisioning Profile Details Provisioning Profile Id Profile Purpose Profile Brand A Phase 1 itm::item BrandA Brand A Phase 1 pay::paymentConfiguration BrandA Brand A Phase 1 pcl::carrier XYZ Brand B Phase 1 itm::item BrandB Brand B Phase 1 pay::paymentConfiguration BrandB Brand B Phase 1 pcl::carrier XYZ XYZ pcl::carrier XYZ This configuration provides the flexibility for each brand to manage its own configurations for payment and items, but for a single set of carrier configuration to be shared by the brands. Provisioning Profiles for Project Phases An organization can create multiple provisioning profiles, but typically only one is needed per project phase. For example, a provisioning profile for brand A's phase one rollout contains: Provisioning Profile Id Profile Purpose Profile Id Brand A Phase 1 pcl::carrier BrandACarriers Brand A Phase 1 itm::item BrandAItems Brand A Phase 1 ord::orderConfig BrandAPhase1 If brand A is rolling out a second phase, in which order configuration needs to transition from the phase one profile to a phase two profile, then a new provisioning profile is created for phase two. This provisioning profile contains all of the same profiles as phase one, except for the order configuration profile purpose, which has transitioned to phase two: Provisioning Profile Id Profile Purpose Profile Id Brand A Phase 2 pcl::carrier BrandACarriers Brand A Phase 2 itm::item BrandAItems Brand A Phase 2 ord::orderConfig BrandAPhase2 Note: On the landing page and the configuration UIs, the profile drop-down in the screen header selects the Provisioning Profile. Managing Profiles Seed data which is provided out of the box is categorized into one of three profiles: Profile Description Examples Base The Base profile stores all the entities for which seed data is provided. Seed data is provided so that on application startup, minimal configuration is required before the application can be used.This "base" profile cannot be used in any provisioning profile other than a provisioning profile belonging to “System” organization. Upgrades can be made to seed data without impacting active configuration because the seed data in the Base profile is not used as is for active configuration. For a new Provisioning profile, perform Copy Provisioning Profile action where a copy of seed data will be copied to the user-mentioned profile. Note: The 'Base' profile replaces the previously used 'Retail' profile. Order type Fulfillment reason code System Entities for which seed data is provided but cannot be modified. This is used for application constants. Package status Delivery method System Augmentable Entities for which seed data is provided but cannot be modified. Additional entries can be added, updated or deleted. UIs and Entities The configuration UIs mentioned in this section are listed in the following table, along with the entities: UI Name Component Entity Name Seed Data Present? Seed data profile Profiles Organization Profile Yes Base Provisioning Profiles Organization ProvisioningProfile Yes Base Items Item data is used by all modules of the application and must be kept up to date so that key data such as item search and inventory availability are accurate. Items can be configured via import and viewed via the Items UI. For each item, the following can be defined: Attributes such as season, style, color, and size, which are used for searching for items Other item attributes, which are extensible key-value pairs and can be defined based on business needs Item codes including UPC, GTIN. Item media, which stores item images and videos that are displayed to users Manufacturing attributes such as country of origin and vendor style number Item instructions which can be used to assist users when special care is required for an item Selling attributes which indicate whether the item can be shipped to an address, picked up in store, and returned Handling attributes, which indicate if an item is hazmat or has any shipping restrictions Inventory protection attributes, which define how many units are protected for the item. For example, store inventory accuracy tends to be poor, so a buffer of 30 units for a fast-moving item can be configured as an inventory protection level, to ensure there is always inventory available for walk-in customers. Value-added service options, to define which value-added services (VAS) an item supports Value-added service types, which further define the list of possible types for each value-added service option Note: The item ID will be the unique identifier of the item throughout the system. It will be the value passed on the order lines. For formatting purposes, it is advised to avoid using special characters such as &,%,/,* etc, in an item ID. Characters "-" and "_" are supported. Items are a special entity that are maintained both in the item component and the inventory component. When an item is created/updated in the item component, the same creation/update will be done automatically in the inventory component. However, if an item is updated in the inventory component, there is no propagation to the item component. It is important that the profile purpose itm::item belong to the same organization as the inventory profile purposes. Note: Item images, configured using the "Media" tab, are used across Store Order Fulfillment, Point of Sale, and Customer Engagement screens. If more than one image is configured for an item, then in screens where detailed item images are displayed, for example, "PICK LIST", the images are displayed, from left to right, in the sequence in which they are configured. Sequence no. 1 image is displayed on screen load. Subsequent images are displayed based on user's actions. How to Bulk Upload Items Post a json array like the below sample to /item/api/item/item/import: { "data": [ {item 1 here}, {item 2 here} ] } Localized Item Attributes: Data Localization of items provides the ability to store the details of item attributes in multiple languages (Locale). The item description, style, image etc. can have locale-specific values. For example, color 'Red' for an item will have 'Rouge' and 'Rojo' in French and Spanish respectively. This will be maintained separately in a child table of items. Refer to the swagger documentation to determine which attributes are localized. The get Item API will retrieve this data based on the locale selected by the user. During item creation, retailers can decide to maintain multiple languages for items in Manhattan Active Omni depending on the business. International retailers who offer shopping in multiple languages often have product information management systems that have this information. If item translations are set up, the available language details can be retrieved during various transactions. The retailer can choose to provide translations for certain locales and for certain attributes. For example, one can provide translation for Item Description and Color alone. If translations are not provided, Active Omni will use the default value. In the following example,  a sample json array shows the addition of localized item data for three languages - English, Chinese and Portuguese. { "ItemId": "121212121", "Description": "MENS_SS_SHIRT", "Color": "SKY_BLUE", "Size": "32" "LocalizedData": { "LanguageKey": "en", "Description": "Men's short sleeve shirt" }, { "LanguageKey": "zh", "Description": "男士短袖襯衫" "Color":"天蓝色", }, { "LanguageKey": "pt", "Description": "Camisa de manga curta masculina", "Color": "Céu azul" }} If item details are requested for Portuguese, description and color under the Languagekey:"pt". Size is always retrieved from the default value "12". Similarly, for English , since no localized data exists for color, 'SKY_BLUE" is retrieved from the default value. These translations can only be created through an API. Note: Extended Attributes cannot be localized. If there are additional attributes of an item that needs translation, ItemAttributes Key-Value pair can be used instead. Please refer to Localization guide for how item attribute localization is used in different products in Active Omni. Item Value Added Services The item value added service (VAS) configuration defines which VAS options are supported by an item. For example, a large chandelier may not be eligible for gift wrap or monogramming, but a sweater could be. A two-tier system is used to define possible VAS options for each item. VAS options are used to define categories of VAS, while VAS types are used to configure sub-categories within each VAS option. For example, the VAS monogramming option may be broken down into three VAS types: small monogram, medium monogram, and large monogram. Before assigning each item with eligible VAS options and types, the master list of VAS options and VAS types needs to be configured. Item value added service options can be configured via import or the Item Value Added Services UI. Item value added service types can be configured via import or the Item Value Added Service Types UI. Note: Extension work is required to leverage the Value Added Service Types during the Order fulfillment process. Item Categories Item categories are used to form a logical grouping of items with common characteristics. Example categories include Women's Apparel, Men's Outerwear, Women's Accessories, etc. A category hierarchy can be defined if parent-child relationships exist between categories. Item categories inherit attributes from the parent category. Item categories can be configured via import or the Item Categories UI. Data Localization provides the capability to maintain the Item Categories in different languages. Item Catalog An item catalog is a grouping of one or more item categories. For example, types of catalogs can include a summer sale catalog or a purchasing catalog. Catalogs are organized using item categories, which enable hierarchical navigation within a catalog. Item catalogs can be configured via import or the Item Catalog UI. Data Localization provides the ability for the retailers to maintain the translated values for the Item Catalog in multiple languages. Item Code Types For each item, multiple item codes can be configured to store the different types of values which are used for identifying items via barcodes. For example, one item may have multiple different item codes including UPC, GTIN, EAN, Case UPC, etc. Before an item's code can be configured, the list of item code types must be set up with the possible code type values.  Item code types can be configured via import or via the Item Code Types UI. UIs and Entities The configuration UIs mentioned in this section are listed in the following table,  along with the entities: UI Name Component Entity Name Seed Data Present? Seed data profile Item Catalog Item Catalog No N/A Item Categories Item Category No N/A Item Code Types Item ItemCodeType Yes Base Item Value Added Services Item ValueAddedServiceOption Yes Base Item Value Added Service Types Item ValueAddedServiceType Yes Base Items Item Item No N/A Customers The customer entity is used to represent a buyer who has interacted with the retailer in one of many ways, such as placing an e-commerce order, calling the call center, or shopping in store. Customers created in external systems such as e-commerce should be imported to the application in real-time, so that CSRs have the most up-to-date information if a customer calls. Customers can be configured via interface import. For each customer, the following can be defined: Address, including billing and shipping addresses Payment methods, such as saved credit cards. By saving this information against the customer, the retailer only needs to ask the customer for the card security code when a new order is placed. Contact information, to define alternate email addresses and phone numbers for a customer Preferences, such as preferred contact method and store location Other customer attributes, which are extensible key-value pairs and can be defined based on business needs. For example, an apparel retailer may want to save a customer's favorite item style, color, item size or shoe size, while a grocery retailer may want to save a customer's preferred item wish list, pickup time slot, and delivery time preference. Alternate customer ids, which can be used to cross-reference a customer who had multiple accounts which were merged into one. Customer ID Generation Customer ID is the unique value used to identify each customer in the system. Customer ID can be populated by an external system, but if a customer is created in the system with a null customer ID, then the customer id is populated by the system. There are three options for populating the customer id within the application: Email, which populates CustomerId with the customer's email address; customer email is a required attribute if this option is selected. Phone number, which populates CustomerId with the customer's phone number; customer phone is a required attribute if this option is selected. Auto-generate a unique id, which populates CustomerId with a unique combination of alphanumeric characters (e.g. "ce6d7df6-fa3c-4373-a0c5-37dfdb6ac68d") Currently, this configuration must be done via API ({url}/customer/api/customer/customerConfig/save). Customer De-Activation A field 'IsActive' exists on the customer entity, which can be used as an indicator for business processes outside of Active Omni such as customer de-duplication (removing duplicate instances of the same customer). No de-duplication process exists within Active Omni. This IsActive field is currently not honored by the customer search, as it is an informational field only. If a customer exists with IsActive = false, then they could still be returned in the search results. Publishing Customers to External Systems If an external system requires updates when customers are created or updated in Active Omni, the following extension points can be used: Publish customers on creation using Customer:Customer:Event:PostCreate Publish customers on update using Customer:Customer:Event:PostUpdate Carriers Refer to this page for carrier configuration. Rating and Scheduling It is recommended to clear the parcel cache after adding all Rating and Scheduling information (region schema, region, region lookup, zone, zone transit times, carrier scheduling hours, and carrier shipping rates) GET {{url}}/parcel/api/parcel/zone/clearAllCachedZones To clear the Shipping rates cache - GET {{url}}/parcel/api/parcel/rate/cacheAllRates Regions Regions represent geographical areas. These regions are areas based on postal codes (or a range of postal codes), a city, a state or a country. All regions that are supported for a parcel carrier must be configured. Regions are configured in the Region Schemas/Region UI. Region can also be defined as a location type region. This helps in reducing the number of transit lanes for location-to-location shipments. Note: there is no limit to the number of regions per implementation Region Details The region detail defines the postal code range associated with a region (zipStart and zipEnd.) Configure region details under the Region Schemas/Region UI. Sample Region Detail data: parentRegion regionDtlId zipStart* zipEnd* 004 1 00401 00499 005 1 00501 00599 006 1 00601 00699 007 1 00701 00799 008 1 00801 00899 009 1 00901 00999 Post:{{url}}/parcel/api/parcel/region/save { "RegionDtl": { "ZipStart": "30300", "Country": "US", "ZipEnd": "30399", "RegionDtlId": "303" }, "Sequence": 299, "RegionSchemaName": "US UPS", "RegionName": "303" } Note: Region Detail ID needs to be unique within a Region. Though multiple region details can be added to a region for transit time and shipping cost - First Region Detail is used. There is no limit on the number of region detail within a region. During scheduling and shipping rate computation, every region details are evaluated. Within a Region Schema, there can be one or more Regions present. If the region details contain location ID, it is important to make sure that the same location does not belong to multiple regions. If the same location ID belongs to multiple different regions, the parcel call will fail and, as a consequence, the promising call will fail too. Alphanumeric Postal Codes (when configured): Numerics will be considered first over Alphabets. For example, "1A" is considered first over "A1". 0 will be considered first: 0-1-2-3-4-5-6-7-8-9 You have to setup separate region for Postal Code has space inbetween. For example, Postal Codes KW1 1AA through KW17 0ZZ will have to be setup explicitly along with zipStart = "KW1" and zipEnd = "KW17" parentRegion regionDtlId location RegionStoreAtl 1 Store-Atl-1 RegionStoreAtl 2 Store-Atl-2 RegionStoreNvl 1 Store-Nashville-1 When there are overlapping regions with different Region Types (9-digit zip code, 5 digit zip code, 3 digit zip code, country etc.) then preference is given to the most granular details. Region is selected based on the more granular data available. The following is the order of the preference - Location, Zip Code (9-digit, 5 digit and 3 digit), City, State and finally Country. It is advisable to avoid overlapping zip codes in different regions' zip code ranges. When there are overlapping regions for the same Region Type - Zip code, then the region is not selected based on sequence. When there are overlapping regions for the same Region Type - Zip code, then a region is selected based on the Zip code start range in descending order. Consider an example - Region 1 - Seq 1 - Postal code range (30000 - 30099) Region 2 - Seq 2 - Postal code range (30010 - 30080) When a request is placed for postal code 30020, there are two regions (Region 1 and Region 2) for the postal code. In this case, preference is given to Region 2 as per the descending order of the Zip code start range. The system checks if the Zone/Lane exists for the selected Region (Region 2). Region Schema Definitions Regions are mapped to a schema (i.e., the ‘US Region Schema’ could be populated with all of the regions defined for US.) The sequence attribute is used for internal performance purposes to index the regions in the schema. Populate from 1 - n, where n is the number of regions in the schema. Configure the Region Schema Definition UI. A sample region schema data: Region Schema Name Region Name Max Sequence USRegionSchema 004 1 USRegionSchema 005 2 USRegionSchema 006 3 USRegionSchema 007 4 USRegionSchema 008 5 USRegionSchema 009 6 POST:{{url}}/parcel/api/parcel/regionSchema/save { "RegionSchemaName": "UPS", "MatchAttribute1": "ZipCode", "MatchAttribute2": "ZipCode", "MaxSequence": 1000 } Carrier Region Lookup A schema lookup is used to find a matching schema for a country code. For example, if the country of origin and the destination are both “US,” then the schema lookup entity provides a matching schema ‘US Region Schema.’ From a matching schema, one can find all the matching regions. Configure on the Region Schema Lookup UI. Sample - POST:{{url}}/parcel/api/parcel/regionLookUp/save { "RegionLookUpId": "1436", "RegionSchemaName": "UPS", "CountryCode": "US" } Carrier Zones A Zone groups multiple transit lanes together. A lane must exist between the origin region and the destination region for the carrier/service level in order for a shipment to take that travel path. If there are 5 regions, and each region can ship to all regions, a total of 25 lanes must exist. The most common way of defining zones is using distances between the origin and destination. All of the transit lanes which fall in a common range belong to the same zone. Configure on the Carrier Zones UI. In a nutshell, a carrier Zone is a combination of transit lanes that have the same transit time for a given carrier/service level. Shipping cost or transit time are defined at the zone level. A lane is unique for the combination (carrier/service level/origin region/destination region), but the zone can be same for lanes with similar properties. For example, if it takes 5 hours transit-time and $4.00 shipping cost for a shipment from "region1" to "region2", as well as from "region1" to "region3", both "region2" and "region3" are in the same zone for the origin region "region1". The following image shows the zone definition by UPS for three service levels based on the distance band from an origin zip code. Zone can be imported using API - Post:{{url}} /parcel/api/parcel/zone/import { "data": [ { "ZoneId": "114", "CarrierCode": "UPS", "ServiceLevel": "Ground", "OriginRegion": "015", "DestinationRegion": "020" } ] } Note: Zones must be defined for the Regions to fetch the Shipping rate and Transit time. When you have two overlapping regions (with same zip code range), then region is selected based on the sequence defined. For the selected Region, zone is evaluated. If the zone is not found, then "API - url/parcel/api/parcel/shippingCost" will not return any values. There is no limit to number of zones in the system. Carrier Shipping Rates Shipping rates are defined for a zone and a weight range. Configure on the Carrier Shipping Rate UI. Sample shipping rate data: Zone carrierCode serviceLevel fromWeight toWeight Rate Zone502 UPS GRND 1 1.99 5.76 Zone202 UPS 2DS 2 2.99 8.87 Zone503 UPS GRND 1 1.99 7.70 Post:{{url}}/parcel/api/parcel/shippingRate/save Get: {{url}}/parcel/api/parcel/shippingRate { "ShippingRateId": 301, "CarrierCode": "UPS", "ServiceLevel": "Ground", "FromWeight": "1.0", "ToWeight": 50, "WeightUom": "lb", "CurrencyUom": "USD", "Zone": "901", "Rate": "10.26" } Note: Though the zone is a combination of carrier/service level and origin/destination regions, the carrier code and service level must be defined in the Shipping Rate entity, this is mandatory as the zone name for two different carriers can be the same. Note: Overlapping Regions - When there are overlapping regions (with the same zip code), system gives preference to a region with more granular details. If the details are same, then it gives preference based on the sequence defined in the Region. For Shipping Cost, when you have a region configured with 5-digit postal code and a 3-digit postal code, the 5-digit code will take precedence and base will try to get the zone for 5 digits. If the zone is not configured, it will fall back to 3 digits and again find a zone. Once a zone is locked, there should be configurations in place for lanes and shipping rates. If the configuration is not present, then it returns empty. Example: Regions: 303, 301, 30339, 30144 Lanes, Zones - Is defined for all Regions Shipping rates - 30339-30144: $5 303-301: $6 For Zone 30339-30144, shipping cost will always be $5. For Zone 30339-301, it will return an empty response as you don't have shipping cost configured for this, For Zone 303-30144, it will return an empty response as you don't have shipping cost configured for this, For Zone 303-301, shipping cost will be $6 If all 4 zones are configured, it will take the most granular level which is #1 above. Carrier Zone Transit Times Zone transit time defines the time it takes for the carrier takes to deliver shipments to the zone. Configure on the Carrier Zone Transit Times UI. Sample transit time data: zoneId carrierCode transitTime (in hours) 002 UPS 24 003 UPS 36 004 UPS 45 FEDX01 FEDEX 36 Carrier Scheduling Carrier scheduling defines the operating time that a shipment can be in transit. Carrier scheduling hours are used in conjunction with carrier transit times to determine delivery dates. Scheduling hours are defined for each carrier, service level and original region. For each day of the week, the start and end times can be defined. Assume the following example: Carrier ServiceLevel Origin Region Day StartTime EndTime UPS Ground Region100 Monday 08:00 20:00 UPS Ground Region100 Tuesday 08:00 20:00 UPS Ground Region100 Wednesday 08:00 20:00 UPS Ground Region100 Thursday 08:00 20:00 UPS Ground Region100 Friday 08:00 20:00 UPS Ground Region200 Monday 10:00 20:00 UPS Ground Region200 Tuesday 10:00 20:00 UPS Ground Region200 Wednesday 10:00 20:00 UPS Ground Region200 Thursday 10:00 20:00 UPS Ground Region200 Friday 10:00 20:00 UPS Ground Region200 Saturday 10:00 14:00 *Day of the week accepts values 1, 2, 3,... 7. 1 is Monday and 7 is Sunday. Operating hours is picked up based on the Origin location's region. Using the example above, if a shipment originated from New York DC (falling under Region100) via a UPS ground level service, the shipment can be in transit for 12 hours (08:00 - 20:00) on a weekday (Monday - Friday). However, the carrier/service level does not operate in the region on Saturday or Sunday. Note: Carrier scheduling hour configuration is not mandatory. However, if defined for any day/origin region/ship via, any days when the carrier scheduling hours are not defined are considered as carrier non-traveling days. If no schedules are defined for any day of the week then it is considered to be operating 24 hours for all seven days in a week. Note: A retailer can define only one shift for a day. Multiple shifts are not permitted. For example, if the carrier scheduling hours are defined as 8 AM to 8 PM for 7 days/week and the transit time defined for a shipment is 24 hours, it may take 2 days (12 hours in transit each day) for the shipment to reach the destination.  since the carrier only operates 12 hours a day. Carrier scheduling is considered along with transit time to find appropriate scheduling dates. It is not taken into consideration if the transit time is zero. Configure on the Carrier Scheduling UI. Carrier Scheduling Holiday Carrier Holidays can be defined in the Carriers UI, in the Carrier Scheduling Holiday tab. The holiday can be defined by a specific service level and date. If RegionName is specified, then the holiday impacts scheduling only when the specific region is the origin region. If RegionName is not specified, then the holiday impacts scheduling regardless of the origin or destination region. Country configuration The country configuration entity belongs to the base profile with profile purpose org::countryConfig. It contains seed data for all the countries present in the organization component out of the box. The country configuration entity is at the country level and contains the following information: IsPostalCodeMandatory: boolean. if true, then the postal code is mandatory in all addresses for that country. An order would not be able to be allocated without a postal code. If false, then the postal code is not mandatory for all addresses in that country. An address can contain a postal code, but it is not mandatory for allocation in that country. IsStateMandatory: boolean if true, then the state is mandatory for all addresses in that country If false, then the state is not mandatory for all addresses in that country isShipToCountryRestricted: boolean If true, then the country is not displayed in the ship to address country drop-down or Item Search country drop-down If false, then the country is displayed in the ship to address country drop-down and Item Search country drop-down Note: On countries where postal code is not mandatory, allocation using geoproximity is not supported. Refer to Order Promising Process for more information. Note: Mandatory settings for State are used only for Order Scheduling and calculation of Shipping Cost and NOT for Promising in the application whereas mandatory settings for Pin Code is used by Promising. A country can be set up through the Country Configuration UI, where the following parameters can be defined for each country: State (Mandatory) Postal Code (Mandatory) Shipping Restrictions Additionally, the country can be configured using the following API: Purpose Method API Get the full list of country configuration supported GET {{url}}/organization/api/organization/countryConfiguration?size=300 Update the country configuration if the postal code or state reglementation is updated POST {{url}}/organization/api/organization/countryConfiguration/save Get the country configuration for one county GET {{url}}/organization/api/organization/countryConfiguration/countryId/countryId/<countryID> What is the purpose of Item Base UOM and Order Line UOM? There is no validation between the Item Base UOM and the UOM on the order line. For instance, an item can be defined with a UOM of “EA,” while the order line can have a UOM of “Unit.” UOM is essential for both infinite and non-infinite supply. If we attempt to import a supply event without including UOM in the payload, we encounter an error: "Input value is required and cannot be empty/null for the field UOM.” While we can process a ship and short event without specifying UOM, it is necessary for creating returns and exchanges. Implementation Flavor How to move items from parent to child when items and supply are at different org levels Requirement: Are there any implications on inventory items if the items that existed at parent level are to be imported into the child level. Is there a need to clear down the parent items? Implementation: There is no need to clear down item data at parent level, move the itm::item profile purpose to point to child and load the data at child level. The data at parent level can be left as-is as long as it is not a considerable number. From an inventory stand point, since inv::supplyConfiguration is still at the parent level, the inventory item entity can still be updated with a child org owned user. Note that, if you have item attributes that you are using in the view, there is a possibility that this item attribute can be updated by user at any of the child orgs. For example, In a multi organization hierarchy (Grandparent org> Parent org> child org A and child org B), if child org A updates the attribute to “ABC” and child org B updates this to “XYZ” in the inventory item table, then you should split the attributes into two and store them and use them as separate filters in ATC.