# Menu Items

**Permalink:** menu-items
**Content Length:** 8,741 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:44.727854

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Configurations&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Menu Maintenance ››Menu Items Menu Items &nbsp; Menu ItemsFiltersCreate a Menu ItemEditing a Menu ItemDetails ViewDeleting a&nbsp;Menu ItemField Description The menu maintenance screen will allow the user to configure new menu maintenance for different menu roots and items. &nbsp; Filters Following is the list of filters available on the screen: &nbsp; Display Name Group Name Label Key Menu ID Menu Resource ID Menu URL Menu URL Parameters Create a Menu Item &nbsp; To create new menu items: &nbsp; Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt; Menu Maintenance&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Menu Items Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Click&nbsp;Create&nbsp;to view the Menu&nbsp;window. Enter the Menu ID&nbsp;for the menu item. Enter the Group Name type of menu item. Enter the Label Key&nbsp;for the menu item display name for localization. Enter the Menu Resource ID&nbsp;associated with the menu item. Enter the Display Name for the menu item. Enter the&nbsp;Menu URL Parameters. Enter the Menu URL. Click Save. Editing a Menu Item To edit &nbsp;menu: &nbsp; Swipe-out List Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt; Menu Maintenance&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Menu Items Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Select the required item location&nbsp;menu record. Swipe-out the menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Edit. In the Menu&nbsp;window, modify the required fields. Click&nbsp;Save. Edit View Select the required menu record card. The action buttons are displayed in the footer section. Click&nbsp;Edit&nbsp;to view the Menu&nbsp;window, modify the required fields. Click&nbsp;Save. Details View &nbsp; Swipe Out List Select the required menu record. Swipe-out the menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Details. In the Menu&nbsp;wizard, you can view the details of the menu items. Details View Select the required record card and you can view the action&nbsp;buttons displayed on the footer section. Click&nbsp;Details&nbsp;from the action button to view&nbsp;details of menu items. &nbsp; Deleting a&nbsp;Menu Item &nbsp; The menu records can be deleted by following one of the below procedures: &nbsp; Swipe-out List Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt; Menu Maintenance&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Menu Items Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Swipe-out menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts as &#39;This action will delete selected Menu Item&#39;. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the menu. Delete Select the required record card. The footer section with action buttons is displayed. Select&nbsp;Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts as &#39;This action will delete selected Menu Item&#39;. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the menu. Field Description Following are the field descriptions of the attributes available on the screen. &nbsp; Field &nbsp; Description &nbsp; Menu ID The unique key for the menu item. Group Name The type of menu item. Label Key The label key for the menu item displays name localization. The localization is maintained in the common-UI-fa&ccedil;ade.&nbsp; Menu Resource ID This is the resource associated with the menu item. If the user does not have access to this resource then the menu item will not be visible to the user. Display Name The display name for a menu item. Menu URL Parameters This is where we specify menu parameters that control the execution behavior of the screen. Menu URL The Menu URL. &nbsp; Action Buttons Following are the action buttons available on the screen. &nbsp; Select All Rows Selects all the rows of records on the screen. Export Exports the list of menu item attributes, the file will be downloaded onto your system. View&nbsp;Export&nbsp;for more information. Create Opens the&nbsp;&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;window.&nbsp; Deselect Clears the selected records. Edit Opens the relevant&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;window to edit the records. Details Opens the relevant&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;window&nbsp;to view and edit the records.