# Multi-Echelon Service Investment Strategy (MESIS)

**Permalink:** mesis
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning/Process &amp; Configuration Guides/Strategy/Configuration/Multi-Echelon Service Investment  Strategy
**Content Length:** 37,032 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:09:27.335145

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning››Process & Configuration Guides››Strategy/Configuration ››Multi-Echelon Service Investment Strategy (MESIS) Multi-Echelon Service Investment Strategy (MESIS) Previous I Next OverviewProcess FlowConfiguration and ImplementationService GroupLocation GroupSIS PolicyMESIS Process RunUls and EntitiesServicesTroubleshootingRelated Articles Overview The Multi-Echelon Service Investment Strategy (MESIS) aims to optimize inventory across all levels (or "echelons") of a supply chain, such as warehouses, distribution centers, and retail stores. The approach ensures that the desired service levels (the ability to meet customer demand) are achieved with minimal safety stock (extra inventory). Instead of managing each level independently, the system treats the entire network as a single unit to calculate service levels and fill rates (the percentage of demand fulfilled). A method called Higher Echelon Supplier Fill Rate Simulation (HESRFS) is used to simulate and determine optimal service levels for the whole network. This process involves simulating a series of fill rates and determining which fill rate results in the lowest total inventory while still meeting the target service level of the store. As the Higher Echelon location, say a distribution center(DC), increases its inventory to meet the higher Supplier Fill Rate requirements for the Lower Echelon Locations, say a set of stores, the inventory at the stores gets reduced. The higher the likelihood of the DC fulfilling store demand, the lower the safety stock is needed at the store level. Process Flow The points below illustrate the steps involved in the MESIS process. Refer to How to configure and implement MESIS for more details. The MESIS process follows a sequential execution, starting with the SIS simulation, followed by the HESFR process, and concluding with a re-run of the SIS simulation. Following this sequence is crucial to optimizing the service level across all echelon locations in the network for a given service group. Run SIS simulation for all associated Lower Echelon locations and apply the calculated Velocity code and selected Target Service Level (TSL). Run MESIS (HESFR) for every Higher Echelon Location attached to the Service Group and apply the Supplier Fill Rate(SFR) for every Lower Echelon Item Location in the Service Group. Run SIS simulation for the Higher Echelon Locations to evaluate the Velocity classification and assign the Velocity code to Higher Echelon Item Locations. Re-run SIS simulation for all associated Lower Echelon locations considering the SFR and Conditional Expected Delay (CED) from MESIS run and apply the calculated Velocity code and selected Target Service Level (TSL). Note: It is recommended to execute all these steps on the same day or within the same period to ensure that the demand considered for the simulation remains consistent. A location can be part of multiple SIS policies. The last applied LE SIS Policy’s TSL will serve as a baseline for the MESIS simulation run, which gets executed at Service Group level. Configuration and Implementation Service Group Users can create or edit a service group in the UI. Navigate to Menu → Service Investment Strategies → Service Group → Click Create Action The Service Group can be associated with Item Location(s) via interface API or Item Location UI. Navigate to Menu → Configurations → Item → Item Location → Item Locations → Click Create or Edit Action Location Group Users can create or edit a Location group in the UI. Navigate to Menu → Configurations → Location → Location Group → Click Create or Edit Action Note : Although it is possible to add a location to many location groups, it is not recommended. SIS Policy Users can create or edit a Service Investment Strategy Simulation Policy in the UI. Navigate to Menu → Service Investment Strategies → Service Investment Strategy Simulation Policies → Click Create or Edit Action Note : It is recommended not to create multiple SIS Policies for the same Service Group and Location Group. If they are created, the last run and last applied SIS policy will take effect. MESIS Process Run Users can execute the MESIS process using the following steps. Run SIS Simulation Policy Navigate to Menu → Service Investment Strategies → Service Investment Strategy Simulation Policies → Select the SIS Policy → Click Run Simulation Apply SIS Simulation Results Navigate to Menu → Service Investment Strategies → Service Investment Strategy Simulation Results → Select the run to review → Click Details → Review → Click Apply and follow the prompt to apply the results. The user can also use related links from the SIS policy UI to view the Simulation results. Execute MESIS (HESFR) process Navigate to Menu → Service Investment Strategies → Select the Service Group to run → Click Run MESIS Apply MESIS results Navigate to Menu → Service Investment Strategies → Multi Echelon Service Investment Strategy Simulation Results → Select the run to review → Click Details → Review → Click Apply MESIS and follow the prompt to apply the results. Repeat the first step for Higher Echelon and Lower Echelon SIS Simulation Policies. Uls and Entities UI Name Component Group Seed Data Present? Seed Data Profile Service Investment Strategy Simulation UI Inventory Optimization Inventory Optimization No No Velocity Classification Results UI Inventory Optimization Inventory Optimization No No Safety Stock Simulation Results UI Inventory Optimization Inventory Optimization No No Multi-Echelon Service Investment Strategy Results UI Inventory Optimization Inventory Optimization No No Service Group Item Location Item Location No No Location Group Item Location Item Location No No Services The APIs listed in the following table are referenced in this document. Refer to the API documentation for additional details on each service. Service Component Group Service End Point CreateServiceGroup Item Location ItemLocation /api/itemlocation/serviceGroup CreateLocationGroup Item Location ItemLocation /api/itemlocation/locationGroup CreateSISPolicy Inventory Optimization Inventory Optimization /api/ai-inventoryoptimization/serviceInvestmentStrategySimulationPolicy RunSISSimulation Inventory Optimization Inventory Optimization /api/ai-inventoryoptimization/simulation/sis/submit ApplySISSimulation Inventory Optimization Inventory Optimization /api/ai-inventoryoptimization/simulation/sis/apply RunMESISSimulation Inventory Optimization Inventory Optimization /api/ai-inventoryoptimization/simulation/mesis/submit ApplyMESISSimulation Inventory Optimization Inventory Optimization /api/ai-inventoryoptimization/simulation/mesis/apply Troubleshooting Q: Is simulation running for a long time? A simulation run duration can be more or less depending on the volume of Item Location records processed. Troubleshooting: Use the MESIS results UI to view the status of the run. Processes can fail due to data issues, configuration errors, or system problems. Review logs for error messages related to a specific service group. Verify item location configuration and data. Restart the simulation and monitor if the problem persists. Q: Applied Simulation Results are not reflected in the expected service levels for specific items? The applied simulation results may not have been correctly propagated or applied due to sync issues. Troubleshooting: Use the UI to verify the simulation results have applied. Check whether item locations are correctly synced. SOQ recalculation is required after applying the results to see the new velocity code, TSL, SFR and updated Safety stock on the impacted Item Locations. Related Articles SCP ConfigurationsUpper Echelon Standard DeviationService Investment StrategiesItem Relationship Order Frequency Simulation Network View and User AccessSafety Stock