# Methods

**Permalink:** methods
**Content Length:** 15,282 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:50.918236

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Configurations&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Strategy&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Methods ››Methods Methods &nbsp; &nbsp; MethodsFiltersCreating&nbsp;a&nbsp;MethodEditing a MethodDeleting a&nbsp;MethodField Description Users can configure the methods to compute inventory needs.&nbsp; They can define methods based on&nbsp;historical metrics such as actual sales, or on forward-looking sales plans, assortment plans, or forecasts.&nbsp;&nbsp;These methods are used in the allocation strategy. &nbsp; Filters Following is the list of filters available on the screen. &nbsp;Method ID Method Name Creating&nbsp;a&nbsp;Method &nbsp;To create a new method: &nbsp; Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt; Configuration&nbsp;&gt; Strategy &gt; Method Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Click&nbsp;Create&nbsp;to view the&nbsp;Allocation Method&nbsp;wizard.&nbsp; Define&nbsp;a Method&nbsp;ID, Name, and Description for the method. Choose Yes or No for Use Expression Builder. If you choose No, you will need to enter a value for Text Based Expression Builder in the next screen.&nbsp; On the Method Builder page, select a value for Select Input Type. If Input Type is Plan, you need to select a value from the Plan Type dropdown. If Input Type is Metric, you need to select a value from the Metric dropdown. If Input Type is Forecast, you can move to select a value from the Select the start date dropdown. After choosing a start date option, enter a value for Offset the start date by, and then choose the desired values for the Specify the number of weeks of data to use and Would you like to add lead time? Select a value from the How would you like to aggregate your data dropdown, and enter a value for Multiply the computed need by. These fields on the Method Builder screen help to&nbsp;describe the formula to use for the method. On the&nbsp;Define weeks of supply for this method&nbsp;page, enter the value for&nbsp;&nbsp;How many weeks of supply does this method represent? field.&nbsp;This value is used to determine the average weekly need. Additionally, Need Adjustments within the specified number of weeks in the future are applied to Need. If the method represents 2 weeks, Need Adjustments for the current week and the next week will be applied. Click&nbsp; Save and Finish to create a new method. Note: All mandatory fields are denoted with *. Editing a Method You can edit the attributes of the existing method information using a method record.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Note: You can edit a&nbsp;method record in 3 different ways, like the Swipe-out board, Edit, and Details button.&nbsp; Swipe-out List Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt; Configuration&nbsp;&gt; Strategy &gt; Method Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Select the required method. Swipe-out menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Edit. In the Edit&nbsp; Allocation Method wizard, modify the required fields except for Method ID. Click&nbsp;Save&nbsp;to save the modified method details. Edit View Select the required method record card. The action buttons are displayed in the footer section. Click Edit&nbsp;to view the edit Allocation&nbsp;Method wizard. Modify the required fields except for Method ID. Click&nbsp;Save&nbsp;to save the modified method details. Details View Select the required method record card. The footer section with action buttons is displayed. Click Details&nbsp;to view the Allocation Method&nbsp;details. Click Edit&nbsp;to view the edit Allocation Method wizard. Modify the required fields except for Method ID. Click&nbsp;Save&nbsp;to save the modified method details. Deleting a&nbsp;Method The methods records can be deleted by following the steps. &nbsp; Note: You can delete a method record in 2 different ways, like the Swipe-out board and Delete button. Swipe-out List Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt; Configuration&nbsp;&gt; Strategy &gt; Method Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Swipe-out menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts as &#39;Deletion of allocation method is irreversible&#39; Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the method record. Delete Select the required record card. The footer section with action buttons is displayed. select&nbsp;Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts as &#39;Deletion of allocation method is irreversible&#39;. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the method record. Field Description The following are the field descriptions of the attributes available on the screen. &nbsp; Field &nbsp; Description &nbsp; Method ID An alphanumeric ID that uniquely defines each method. &nbsp;Method Name &nbsp;The name of the allocation method. Description The description of the allocation method. Method Details The method details that describe the formula used in the method. &nbsp; &nbsp; metricHelper.METRIC(productLocation, [metric_name], [date_reference], [offset for start date], [number_of_weeks], [add_lead_time],&nbsp; [Aggregattion_type]) &nbsp; Parameters Description Metric_name Can be any metric loaded into Active Allocation. For Example,&nbsp; Sales, BOPIS, Ship_From_Store, etc. Date_reference Date reference to use to identify periods used to compute a return value. Possible values: currentBusinessDate, preSeasonStartDate, preSeasonEndDate, inSeasonStartDate, inSeasonEndDate, endOfSeasonStartDate, endOfSeasonEndDate, or any other user created date by using the function LocalDate.of(YYYY, MM, DD) Offset for start date The start date of the date range used to compute the metric would be Date_reference + Offset for start date (in weeks). For Example, to use periods one year ago to compute need, pass a date reference of current date with offset as -52 weeks, which would result in a start date of currentBusinessDate &ndash; 52*7 Specify the number of weeks of data to use Specifies the number of weeks of data to use from the start date to use to determine the time periods used to compute the return value.&nbsp; The number of weeks of data extracted from Metrics / Plan / Forecast and used to compute the need. Add Lead Time If add lead time is passed as true, the active allocation will automatically add the lead time of the destination SKU, to the number of weeks passed before computing the need. Valid values: true or false Aggregation Type Used to determine how to compute the return value using the time series data using the above parameters. Possible values: AggregationType.MAX, AggregationType.MIN, AggregationType.SUM, AggregationType.AVERAGE, AggregationType.FIRST, AggregationType.LAST &nbsp; For example, To use need as sales in the 4 weeks from last year. var needv = metricHelper.METRIC(productLocation, &#39;Sales&#39;, currentBusinessDate, -52, 4, false, AggregationType.SUM); &nbsp; &nbsp;How many weeks of supply does this method represent? This value is used to determine the average weekly need. Additionally, Need Adjustments within the specified number of weeks in the future are applied to Need. If the method represents 2 weeks, Need Adjustments for the current week and the next week will be applied. &nbsp; Action&nbsp;Buttons Export Click &#39;Export&#39; to export the list of method attributes, the file will be downloaded on to your system. View&nbsp; Export&nbsp;for more information. Select All Rows&nbsp; Click &#39;Select All Rows&#39;&nbsp; to select all the records created for the method. Deselect Click &#39;De Select&#39;&nbsp; to clear the selected records. Edit&nbsp; Click &#39;Edit&#39; to edit&nbsp; method&nbsp;records.&nbsp;&nbsp; Details Click &#39;Details&#39; to navigate to the Allocation Method wizard to edit the records. Delete Click &#39;Delete&#39; &nbsp;to delete the method records.