# Metric Types

**Permalink:** metric-types
**Content Length:** 8,671 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:45.499616

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Configurations&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Metric Configuration ››Metric Types Metric Types &nbsp; Metric TypesFiltersCreating a Metric TypeEditing Metric TypesDetails ViewField Description &nbsp; Metric Types are defined as the classification of measure. For example, Sale, e-comm sale, etc.. User can also configure the duration of the metrics. For example, weekly, monthly, etc. &nbsp; Filters The&nbsp; metric types&nbsp;filters are: Calculate Model Metric Description Fulfilment Type Metric Type Id Time Period Level UOM Creating a Metric Type To create a new metric type: Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Configuration&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Metric Configuration &gt; Metric Types Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Click&nbsp;Create&nbsp;to view the Metric Type&nbsp;window. Enter a&nbsp;unique&nbsp;Metric&nbsp;Type Identifier. This is a required field. Enter a Unit Of Measure for metric type.&nbsp;When interfacing metric and plan data, the unit of measure has to be in Unit (Eaches).&nbsp; Enter the Description for metric type. &nbsp;Select the&nbsp;Time Period Level at which metric types are interfaced. This is a required field. &nbsp;Select&nbsp;Fulfilment Type checkbox&nbsp;if this is a&nbsp;metric for a fulfillment program. Select&nbsp;Calculate Model Metric checkbox to indicate&nbsp;whether the model metric is computed or not for this metric type. Click Save. Editing Metric Types To edit metric types: &nbsp; Swipe-out List Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Configuration&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Metric Configuration &gt; Metric Types Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Select the required metric types record. Swipe-out the menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Edit. In the Metric Types&nbsp;window, modify the required fields. Click&nbsp;Save&nbsp;to save the modified metric types details. Edit View Select the required metric types record card. The action buttons are displayed in the footer section. Click&nbsp;Edit&nbsp;to view the&nbsp;Metric Types&nbsp;window, modify the required fields. Click&nbsp;Save to save the&nbsp;modified metric types details. Details View &nbsp; Swipe Out List Select the required metric&nbsp;types record. Swipe-out menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Details. In the Metric Types&nbsp;wizard, you can view the details of metric&nbsp;types. Details View Select the required record card and you can view the actions buttons displayed on the footer section. Click&nbsp;Details&nbsp;from the action button to view&nbsp;details of metric&nbsp;types. Field Description Following are the field descriptions of the attributes available on the screen. &nbsp; Field &nbsp; Description &nbsp; Metric Type Id The metric type identifier must be unique.&nbsp; UOM The Unit of measure for metric type. &nbsp; Note: UOM conversion is not available and UOM is not used for any computation involving metrics. Description The description of&nbsp;the metric type. Time Period Level The time period level at which metric types are interfaced. Note: The time period level should be one of the business calendar levels defined in the business calendar. Examples are week, month, quarter, and year. Fulfilment Type Used to include if this is a&nbsp;metric for a fulfillment program. Calculate Model Metric Used to indicate&nbsp;whether the model metric is computed or not for this metric type. &nbsp; Action Buttons Following are the action buttons available on the screen. &nbsp; Select All Rows Selects all the rows of records on the screen. Export Exports the list of grade attributes, the file will be downloaded onto your system. View&nbsp;Export&nbsp;for more information. Create Opens the&nbsp;Metric Types&nbsp;window.&nbsp; Deselect Clears the selected records. Edit Opens the relevant&nbsp;Metric Types&nbsp;window to edit the records. Details Opens the relevant&nbsp;Metric Types&nbsp;window&nbsp;to view and edit the records.