# Metric Monitoring

**Permalink:** metric_monitoring
**Content Length:** 7,402 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:39:20.207913

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Administrator Tools&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Global Utilities&rsaquo;&rsaquo;General Notification Capabilities ››Metric Monitoring &nbsp; Metric Monitoring &nbsp; &nbsp; Configure a Metric Monitoring Trigger for Notifications Manhattan Active provides a set of metrics to help monitor functional flows. Metric Monitoring Triggers allow you to create and configure notifications on a threshold breach for various events occurring within the system. Users need to configure a metric monitoring trigger to create a notification. &nbsp; Configure a Metric Monitoring Trigger for Notifications To create a metric monitoring trigger, follow these steps. &nbsp; Navigate to&nbsp;System Management &gt; Developer Tools &gt;&nbsp;Metric Monitoring&nbsp;Triggers. The list view is populated with existing metric monitoring&nbsp;triggers. To create a new metric monitoring trigger, click&nbsp;Create. On the Create New Metric Monitoring&nbsp;Trigger screen, click the&nbsp;Choose&nbsp;Metric Monitor&nbsp;button from the header to select from the list of&nbsp;metric monitors.&nbsp; This acts as a template&nbsp;to populate the fields for easy configuration. You can change the values for MinThreshold, MaxThreshold, and AlertType as required. Metric Monitoring Trigger ID is a user-provided value. If not populated by the Metric Monitor selection, select an Alert Type and provide the appropriate threshold range and description (optional) for the metric monitor trigger. Click Save and Finish when done. Note:&nbsp;the subscription configuration is performed for an alert type which can be found in the Alerts Menu in the primary tab. UI Field &nbsp; Description &nbsp; Remarks &nbsp; Metric Monitoring Trigger ID User-provided identifier for the configuration. &nbsp; Metric Monitor&nbsp;ID The available metric monitor used for the trigger configuration. A list of applications by provided metric monitor. Auto-populated based on which metric monitor&nbsp;is selected for configuring the trigger. Alert Type The Alert identifier which will be used for triggering notification Auto-populated based on which&nbsp;metric monitor is selected for configuring the trigger. Users can override it with any other available alert type. Threshold Min Value The minimum threshold is the value for the given metric monitor ID. An email or web notification will be sent if the number of occurrences of the event for the metric is below the threshold. Example: Monitors the order creation metric&nbsp;every hour. If the creation count is less than 10, this alert will be raised. Threshold Max Value The maximum threshold is the value for the given metric monitor ID. An email or web notification will be sent if the number of occurrences of the event for the metric is above the threshold. Example: For the metric wave_order_failure_count, if the threshold maximum value is 10, then this notification will trigger when the number of wave order failures is at least 10. Metric Monitor Description The description of the configuration. It is auto-populated based on which metric monitor is selected for configuring the trigger. The description can be overridden. For details about notifications and how to configure notifications, refer to the Alerts&nbsp;Framework. &nbsp;