# Minimum Purchase Quantity

**Permalink:** minimum-purchase-quantity
**Content Length:** 10,167 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:37:44.098408

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process &amp; Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Replenishment&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Factors affecting SOQ ››Minimum Purchase Quantity Minimum Purchase Quantity Previous&nbsp;I&nbsp;Next OverviewProcess FlowConfigurationsHow to set up a Minimum Purchase Quantity?ServicesRelated Articles Overview The minimum purchase quantity is the minimum number of items that the user must purchase for an Item. It always rounds the SOQ for the item up after you set a minimum purchase quantity to ensure that the SOQ is higher than the minimum purchase quantity. This is used to specify the minimum SOQ requirement, if it is different from the buying multiple. &nbsp; Consider the following before you use a minimum purchase quantity: Use a minimum purchase quantity only when the minimum SOQ requirement is greater than the buying multiple. When the minimum purchase quantity is set at the default value of 1, it considers the minimum purchase quantity to be the buying multiple. A minimum purchase quantity may cause you to carry more inventory than you need. &nbsp; Process Flow &nbsp; &nbsp; Set up Minimum Purchase Quantity: Refer&nbsp;How to set up Minimum Purchase Quantity for more details. Configurations How to set up a Minimum Purchase Quantity? &nbsp; {{url}}/itemlocation/api/itemlocation/itemLocationSource/save &nbsp; { &quot;ItemId&quot;: &quot;Item1&quot;, &quot;LocationId&quot;:&quot;Store1&quot;, &quot;MinimumPurchaseQuantity&quot;: &quot;300&quot; } &nbsp; Minimum Purchase Quantity UOM SOQ Safety Stock ROQ Final SOQ 1 Each 86 20.8 85.8 86 5 Each 86 20.8 85.8 86 25 Each 84 19 84 84 50 Each 80 14.9 79.9 80 75 Each 77 12.1 77.`1 77 100 Each 100 9.9 74.9 100 200 Each 200 3.7 68.7 200 &nbsp; Implementation Flavors NA Services The&nbsp;APIs listed in the following table are referenced in this document. Refer to the API documentation for additional details on&nbsp;each service. Service Component Group Service Endpoint Minimum Purchase Quantity Item Location Source &nbsp; {{url}}/itemlocation/api/itemlocation/itemLocationSource/save Related Articles Committed QuantityReview CyclePlanned DemandBuying MultipleManual Minimum Order Pack OptimizationConvenience PackManual MaximumOrder Point AdjustmentLead Time