# Model Item Setup

**Permalink:** model-item-setup
**Content Length:** 17,010 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:58.669316

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Configurations&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Items ››Model Item Setup Model Item Setup &nbsp; Model Item SetupFiltersCreating a Model ItemEditing a Model ItemDeleting a Model ItemField DescriptionAction Buttons Model Item Setup assists you in benchmarking a new item with an existing one. It checks the history of an existing item that would be similar to the new model, which further helps in planning or allocating inventory. Item modeling is applicable to&nbsp;all locations or location categories for an item. Currently, the&nbsp;model item is&nbsp;configured for both style and style-color levels. If modeling is configured on both levels, the style-color&nbsp;modeling will be honored. Users can configure the modeling from the UI and interface. When&nbsp;configuring the modeling from the UI, users will need to type in target and model style/style-colors.&nbsp;&nbsp; The model metric will be computed at the size level.&nbsp;The metric&nbsp;values will not be copied over&nbsp;if the model and target items have different colors and sizes. &nbsp; &nbsp; Filters Target Item ID &nbsp; Creating a Model Item &nbsp; To create a new model item: &nbsp; Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Configurations&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Item&gt;&nbsp;Model Item Setup Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Click&nbsp;Create&nbsp;to view the&nbsp;Model Item&nbsp;Setup&nbsp;window. Enter the&nbsp;Target Item Id,&nbsp;Style Property, and choose Yes or No for Continues Metric Copy. You can also click on the search icon for Target Item Id to open the&nbsp;Item Lookup&nbsp;wherein you can search for a item using criteria such as&nbsp;-Item ID,&nbsp;Department,&nbsp;Material,&nbsp;Name,&nbsp;Class,&nbsp;Subclass, Style Template,&nbsp;Brand, Color, Vendor, Size,&nbsp;or ItemType.&nbsp;Choose the desired item and click&nbsp;Save and Continue. Select a&nbsp;Model item&nbsp;from the given list in the next screen, or click on&nbsp;Add New&nbsp;to add a new model item using the&nbsp;Model Item Id, Style Property,&nbsp;or any of the above search criteria for a item. Click&nbsp;Save and Finish. Note:&nbsp;All mandatory fields are denoted with *. Editing a Model Item &nbsp; To edit a model item: &nbsp; Swipe-out List Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Configurations&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Item&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Model Item Setup. Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Select the required item record. Swipe-out the menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Edit. In the&nbsp;Model Item Setup&nbsp;window, modify the required fields. Click&nbsp;Save & Close&nbsp;to save the modified item details. Edit View Select the required model item&nbsp;record.&nbsp; The action buttons are displayed in the footer section. Click&nbsp;Edit&nbsp;to view the&nbsp;Item item Setup&nbsp;window, and modify the required fields. Click&nbsp;Save & Close&nbsp;to save the modified item details. &nbsp; Deleting a Model Item &nbsp; To delete a model item: &nbsp; Swipe-out List Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Configurations&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Item&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Model ItemSetup. Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Swipe-out menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts as &#39;Deletion of Model Item Setup is irreversible&#39;. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the item. Delete Select the required record card. The footer section with action buttons is displayed. Select&nbsp;Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts as &#39;Deletion of Model Item Setup is irreversible&#39;. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the item. &nbsp; Field Description The following are the field descriptions of the attributes available on the screen. &nbsp; Field &nbsp; Description &nbsp; Target Item Id An alphanumeric ID that uniquely defines each target store. Model Item&nbsp;Count The number of model stores chosen for a specific target store. Style Property Specifies the style property of the item. Continuous Metric Property Defines whether the continuous metrics are available or not for the item. &nbsp; Action Buttons The following are the action buttons available on the screen. &nbsp; Create Opens the&nbsp;Model Item Setup&nbsp;window.&nbsp; Deselect Clears the selected records. Edit Opens the&nbsp;Model Item Setup&nbsp;window displaying details of the selected record. Delete Deletes the selected record. &nbsp; Examples 1: &nbsp; Modeling at Style-color Level &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Example 1: Target Item of Same Color &nbsp; &nbsp; Target Colors Sizes &nbsp; T_Style_Color_1 Black S, M &nbsp; Model Colors Sizes &nbsp; M_Style_Color_1 Black S, M &nbsp; Model Metric Wk1 Wk2 Wk3 Black &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; S 5 10 9 M 5 5 6 Model Metric Wk1 Wk2 Wk3 Black &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; S 5 10 9 M 5 5 6 &nbsp; Example 2 :&nbsp; Target Item of Different Color, same size &nbsp; Target Colors Sizes &nbsp; T_Style_Color_1 Dark Gray S,M &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Model Colors Sizes &nbsp; M_Style_Color_1 Black S,M &nbsp; Model Metric Wk1 Wk2 Wk3 Black &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; S 5 10 9 M 5 5 6 Model Metric Wk1 Wk2 Wk3 Dark Gray &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; S 5 10 9 M 5 5 6 &nbsp; Example 2: &nbsp; The table below explains the&nbsp;activation date scenarios and&nbsp;its impact on model metrics computation.&nbsp; &nbsp; Scenario Model Metrics Computation Threshold Activation Date Current Business Date Metric (Sales) Values Model Metric Values Model Metrics Values Method OffSet Need Calculation Description Use model metric values for initial configured weeks Default (12 week) 2020-01-12 2020-02-03 &quot;2019-12-30&quot;: &quot;102&quot;, &quot;2020-01-06&quot;: &quot;114&quot;, &quot;2020-01-20&quot;: &quot;130&quot;, &quot;2020-01-20&quot;: &quot;139&quot;, &quot;2020-01-27&quot;: &quot;161 &nbsp; currentbuisness date , -04 , 04 2020-01-12 + 12 weeks = 2020-05-04 In this scenario, Allocation will use the model metric until 2020-05-04 As per the method configuration, allocation will look for model metric values from 2020-01-06 to 2020-01-27. As we are not having any model metric values in these dates, the need will be 0 and supply will not get allocated. 2a. Use metric (sales) data after activation date and model metric values before activation date. 0 2020-01-12 2020-02-03 &quot;2019-12-30&quot;: &quot;102&quot;, &quot;2020-01-06&quot;: &quot;114&quot;, &quot;2020-01-13&quot;: &quot;130&quot;, &quot;2020-01-20&quot;: &quot;139&quot;, &quot;2020-01-27&quot;: &quot;161&quot; &nbsp; currentbuisness date , -04 , 04 2020-01-12 + 0 weeks = 2020-01-12 In this scenario, Allocation will use the model metric before activation date (2020-1-12) and after activation date (2020-1-12) metric(sales) values will be used. As per the method configurationallocation system will look for model/metric &nbsp;values from 2020-01-06 to 2020-01-27. As we are not having any model metric value for 2020-01-06 week.Need for this week will be 0.Total need will be : 0 + 130+139+161 &nbsp;=430. Supply will get allocated for this need. 2a. Use metric (sales) data after activation date and model metric values before activation date. 0 2020-01-12 2020-02-03 &quot;2020-01-13&quot;: &quot;130&quot;, &quot;2020-01-20&quot;: &quot;139&quot;, &quot;2020-01-27&quot;: &quot;161&quot; &quot;2019-12-30&quot;: &quot;102&quot;, &quot;2020-01-06&quot;: &quot;114&quot; currentbusinessdate, -04, 04 2020-01-12 + 0 weeks = 2020-01-12 In this scenario, Allocation will use the model metric until 2020-1-12 and use metric(sales) values thereafter. As per the method configuration, allocation system will look for model metric values from 2020-01-06 to 2020-01-27. As we are having model metric value for 2020-01-06 week.Need for this week will be 114. Total need will be : 114 + 130+139+161 =544. Supply will get allocated for this need.