# Model Store Setup

**Permalink:** model-store-setup
**Content Length:** 8,471 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:43.915371

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Configurations&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Location Configurations ››Model Store Setup Model Store Setup &nbsp; Model Store SetupFiltersCreating a Model StoreEditing a Model StoreDeleting a Model StoreField DescriptionAction Buttons Retailers use one or more existing stores as a benchmark while planning (merchandise inventory, sales, etc) or allocating inventory for newly opened stores, or introducing a new category in existing stores. These benchmark stores are called model stores. Model stores benchmarking or modeling can be specific to a certain category of items&nbsp;or applicable&nbsp;to all departments. Inventory for the new stores is then allocated based on the historical demand or planned sales or forecast for those like stores. In the case of multiple source (model) stores, the average (non-zero) value of the KPIs from the selected model stores should be copied to the new stores. Model store definition can be configured at the item location&nbsp;level. &nbsp; Filters Target Store ID &nbsp; Creating a Model Store &nbsp; To create a new model store: &nbsp; Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Configurations&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Location&nbsp;Configurations&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Model Store Setup. Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Click&nbsp;Create&nbsp;to view the&nbsp;Model Store Setup&nbsp;window. Select the&nbsp;Item Category from the drop-down list. &nbsp;Enter the Target&nbsp;Store ID or use the&nbsp;search icon to open the Location Lookup where you can search for a location using criteria such as - Location ID, District, Climate, Name, Location Type, Store Size, Region, or Primary DC. Choose the desired location and click Submit. Select a&nbsp;Model Store&nbsp;from the given list in the next screen, or click on Add New to add a new model store using the Model Store ID or any of the above search criteria for a location. Click Save and Finish. Note:&nbsp;All mandatory fields are denoted with *. Editing a Model Store &nbsp; To edit a model store: &nbsp; Swipe-out List Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Configurations&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Location&nbsp;Configurations&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Model Store Setup. Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Select the required store record. Swipe-out the menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Edit. In the&nbsp;Model Store Setup&nbsp;window, modify the required fields. Click&nbsp;Save &amp; Close&nbsp;to save the modified store details. Edit View Select the required policy record card. The action buttons are displayed in the footer section. Click&nbsp;Edit&nbsp;to view the&nbsp;Model Store Setup&nbsp;window, and modify the required fields. Click&nbsp;Save &amp; Close&nbsp;to save the modified store details. &nbsp; Deleting a Model Store &nbsp; To delete a model store: &nbsp; Swipe-out List Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Configurations&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Location&nbsp;Configurations&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Model Store Setup. Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Swipe-out menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts as &#39;Deletion of Model Store Setup is irreversible&#39;. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the store. Delete Select the required record card. The footer section with action buttons is displayed. Select&nbsp;Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts as &#39;Deletion of Model Store Setup is irreversible&#39;. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the store. &nbsp; Field Description The following are the field descriptions of the attributes available on the screen. &nbsp; Field &nbsp; Description &nbsp; Target Store ID An alphanumeric ID that uniquely defines each target store. Target Store Identifier ( newly opened stores) Model Store Count The number of model stores chosen for a specific target store. Item Category Defines the category of a specific item. &nbsp; Action Buttons The following are the action buttons available on the screen. &nbsp; Create Opens the&nbsp;Model Store Setup&nbsp;window.&nbsp; Deselect Clears the selected records. Edit Opens the&nbsp;Model Store Setup&nbsp;window displaying details of the selected record. Delete Deletes the selected record. &nbsp;