# Modify Orders

**Permalink:** modify-existing-orders
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Order Management/UI Help/Customer Service/Modify Orders
**Content Length:** 52,897 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:59:48.244950

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Order Management››UI Help››Customer Service ››Modify Orders Modify Orders Update Shipping AddressApply PromotionsApply CouponsApply Appeasements Override PricesApply Value Added Services (VAS)Capturing NotesGift CardRefund Gift CardAdd Items to an OrderOverride Shipping and Handling ChargesCancel ItemsCancellation of Post Release LinesHold OrdersCancel OrdersOrder TimelineUpdate delivery Method The Customer Transactions and Call Center page enables you to edit orders based on the customer's requirements. You can access and edit the order details such as order items, promotions, coupons, appeasements, shipping address, payment details, and order notes for an order on the edit order page. Note that the order details cannot be edited on the Order Status page. To access an order, perform the following steps: By Order Number On the Customer Service Home page, in the Find an Order text box, enter the order number and search for an order. The corresponding order details are displayed in the Call Center page. In the Payment Info section, click the  icon and select Edit. The order opens in the edit mode. By Name, Email, Phone On the Customer Service Home page, in the Find a Customer text box, enter the name, phone number, or e-mail of the customer and search for a customer. Click View More Search Options to use the first name, last name, email, and phone number of the customer to perform the search. Based on the search criteria, the customer list is displayed. Select a customer from the customer list to display the Customer Transactions page. In the Transaction List, select the appropriate transaction you want to edit. In the Transaction Details section, click the  icon and select Edit. The order opens in the edit mode. After updating the order details, ensure that you click the Confirm Changes button. In the process of editing, if you try to navigate to another page, the Confirm Changes pop-up window is displayed to remind if you want to leave the order without confirming changes. You can select the following option: •    Continue: Click Continue to leave edit mode without confirming changes •    Cancel: Click Cancel to get back to the edit mode and confirm the changes Update Shipping Address The Shipping panel on the Call Center page contains the address of a customer. To update the address, perform the following steps: Search and select an order. On the Call Center page, click the Shipping tab. In the Addresses Used in This Order section, click the Edit link and enter the details in the appropriate fields. Alternatively, if the updated address is already available in the Available Addresses section, click Use This. Address Verification System (AVS) The address that you enter is verified for authenticity. The following table lists the messages that is displayed by the AVS and the action that you must perform. Message Action Shipping address validation is failed This message is displayed when the address is incorrect. You have two options to choose from: Save the address as it is - Click to save the address as entered. Put the order line on hold - Click to hold the order line. Please review the recommended shipping address and choose the appropriate one AVS recommends the correct address instead of the one you have entered. You have two options to choose from: Click Keep my address as entered in the You Entered section to use the address entered by you as the shipping address for the item/items. Select the one of the AVS recommendation in the We found section and click Accept this recommended address, to use the recommended address as the shipping address for the item/items. Address verification service is successful No action required. The table below outlines the behavior of the Address Verification System (AVS) based on the ResponseDecision and AddressVerified values. ResponseDecision AddressVerified AVS Behavior Success True Indicates an exact address match. If no recommended address is returned, the entered address is saved as-is without prompting the user with suggestions. Success False Indicates a partial address match. A list of recommended addresses is displayed, allowing the user to choose one. AVSFailure True Displays a message indicating the AVS is currently unavailable and provides the option to hold line. AVSFailure False Displays a message indicating the AVS is currently unavailable and provides the option to hold line. Add an Address To add an address to an order, perform the following steps: On the Call Center page, select the items for which you want to modify the shipping address. In the Shipping tab, select the Ship to Address option. Click to expand the Add New Address section. Fill in the appropriate fields. If you want to use the new address as your billing address, select the Use as Billing Address check box. Click Use This. Click Proceed to Payment. Note: This field is available only if the delivery option is selected as Ship to Address. Update an Address To update an address, perform the following steps: On the Call Center page, select the items to modify the shipping address. In the Shipping tab, select the Ship to Address option. Click to expand the Addresses Used in this Order section. Click Edit. Update the appropriate fields. If you want to use this address as your billing address, select the Use as Billing Address check box, and then click Update. To modify the shipping method, click to expand the Shipping Method section. Click Edit. Select a shipping method from the Shipping Method drop-down list, and then click Update. Click Proceed to Payment. Select an Available Address On the Call Center page, select the items for which you want to modify the shipping address. In the Shipping tab, select the Ship to Address option. Click to expand the Available Addresses section. Click Use This. The Address Verification screen opens to show the recommended addresses. Select the appropriate address. Click Save. Apply Promotions You can apply promotions either to a specific item or to the whole order. To open the Promotions page, click the Promotions link in the Call Center page. Apply Promotion to an Order Note: Restrictions regarding the promotions, if any, are displayed in the right pane of the window. On the Call Center page, click Promotions. The Promotions window lists the applicable promotions by the name and discount. The details of the selected promotion appear in the right panel with the following attributes: Start Date Expiry Date Restrictions for the Promotions Type of discount. Click the Apply button to associate the promotion with the order. Note: To disassociate a promotion from an order, click Remove. Apply Promotions to an Item In the line item of the order, click Promotions. When no promotions are available for an item, the No Item Promotions Available message is displayed. Click the Apply button to add the promotion. The re-calculated price for the order is displayed in the bottom of the page. Apply Coupons Coupon codes are used to avail discounts on the order. On the Call Center page, click Coupon. The Coupons window is displayed. Enter a valid discount code in the Coupon Codes field. If there is more than one coupon code, separate them by commas. Click Apply. The re-calculated price for the order is displayed in the bottom of the page. Note: The coupon code is case sensitive, so ensure that you enter the correct input of uppercase and lowercase letters. For example, if your coupon code is WINTER5OFFC and you enter the coupon code as winter5offc, an invalid coupon code message is displayed. Apply Appeasements Appeasements are a policy of giving concessions or discounts for an order to satisfy customer issues. You can apply appeasements at both the order and item-level. Once the appeasement is applied or removed, the total amount of the order is re-calculated. Below are available Appeasement types: Amt Off—A fixed value appeasement is done. Perc Off—You can write-off a percentage from the total amount. The maximum percentage that you can write-off is displayed below this field. Flat—You can write-off the entire amount of the order or item. Conditions The value of appeasement cannot be more than the order or order line total. If the entered value of appeasement is more than the total amount of the order or order line, the maximum value is applied. It is mandatory to have a reason associated with the appeasement. Unique reason codes may be applied at the line level and the order level. Apply Appeasements to an Order On the Call Center page, click Appeasements. The Appeasements window is displayed. In the Applied Appeasements section, click Add. Select the type of appeasement that you want to apply. The options are: $Off %Off Flat Click the Select a reason list and choose the appropriate reason for providing an appeasement. Click the Apply button. Apply Appeasements to an Item On the Call Center page, click Appeasements. The Appeasements window is displayed. If applicable, select the filter icon , to open the Order Line Filter pop-up and narrow the order lines displayed in the Appeasement window. In the Applied Appeasements section, click Add against each item for which you to apply appeasement. Select the Type of Appeasement. The options are: Amt Off Perc Off Select the reason from the drop-down field, and enter an appropriate description for providing an appeasement. Click the Apply button. The re-calculated values are displayed at the bottom of the page. You can view the Total Appeasement and Total Appeasement Value. Override Prices There are situations where competitors may be selling the same item at a lesser price. To avoid customers canceling orders or taking their business elsewhere, you have the option to override pricing to match competitors and retain customers. Price override functionality allows the user to modify the system-defined price of an item. The price of an item can be overridden multiple times, and the delta in the price can be greater or lesser than the original price. Can view the complete history of the price overrides. Price overrides are permitted based on the order mod type configuration. If order line is not a Buy One Get One offered line. Note: The Override Price permissions are required to modify the price. The Override Price dialog enables you to override the price of an item and view the complete history of the price overrides. Match Item Price / Override Item Price In the item section of the Call Center page, click the icon that is next to the Price field of the item. The Override Price dialog box appears. Enter the new price in the New Price field. Select a valid reason code and enter an appropriate description for overriding the item price. Click Apply. In the item section, the price of the item now appears in green indicating that the price has been overridden. In the Price override history section of the Override Price dialog box, you can view the complete history of all the price overrides done for the item. By default, the last updated price change record appears first. If there is no price override for the item, "No overrides on item price" message is displayed. Define reason code for price overrides Reason codes and descriptions are entered for every instance of overriding item prices. This reason code is defined in the System Codes. Record Type: Base codes Code Type: 132 Below are the application-defined reason codes for price overrides: Competitor's price match Gift Card price Gift card refund Manual markdown Manual markup Others How to revert to the original item price You can revert a price override to the original item price listed in the application. In the item section of the Call Center page, click the icon that is next to the Price field of the item. The Override Price dialog box appears. Select Revert to Original Price check box. Note: The Revert to Original Price check box will be enabled for selection only when the price has been overridden at least once. The default reason code Revert to original Price will be populated in the system automatically when the price is reverted using this option. Apply Value Added Services (VAS) Order line services are Value Added Services that are associated with the items ordered. While creating a customer order, the application provides an option to choose the different services available for an item. The order line service dialog shows the services defined in the item configuration. Note: The Apply VAS permission is required to add/modify services to an item. Configure order line services for an item Value added services for an item is configured in the Item Specification tab. The Order line Services dialog will show only the VAS Types defined in Item configuration. Go to Menu > Master Data > Manage Items > Items. Enter all or one of the search criteria attributes, such as Item ID, Description, Style, Color, Size and Brand. Click Find. Optionally, you can scroll and select the item name and click Select. Select the item and click View. Select Value Added Service tab and click Add. Select the value added service type from the drop-down and click Save. To add Order Line Service to items in an order: Click the Add Service link to view the Order Line Service dialog box. It lists the services offered for the item. Select the check box for the required service. Select the service option offered for the chosen service. On selecting the service option, the corresponding charges will appear. Click Save to apply VAS for the item. Override Order line service charges To override charges incurred by VAS on the selected item: Click the Service link to view the Order Line Service dialog box. Click the icon against the service for which you want to override the price. Enter the new price in the New Charges edit box. Select a reason for override from the Reason drop-down. Enter details for the override. You can view details of previous overrides if the price has already been overridden. Click Save. Note : In the call center, VAS override at order line is allowed only when the order line status is less than or equal to fulfilled status. Label as Gift Sending items as a gift is a common VAS option. To do so, perform the following steps: In the Call Center page, Click Yes corresponding to the Gift field for an item. Click theicon to add the order line notes. This is used to enter messages and other notes for the gift. In the Notes pop-up window, click the + icon. In the Note Type drop-down list, select a Note Type, for example: Gift From, birthday message. In the Note text box, enter the appropriate note. Click Save to apply the order line notes for the item. Capturing Notes Notes are message, reasons and description attached to the order or order line. The Order Notes popup page helps you to select a note type and type any message about the order. This note is then attached to the order and the instruction is performed before the order is shipped. For example, you can create a note of type Gift Message and write a message, this is then attached to the order. The gift message is printed and attached to the item when the order is processed and shipped. Notes can be added to orders in any status, based on the order mod type configuration. The order note is also used to enter the reason and description when the order is put on hold. The ability to add, view, edit and delete order notes is managed by grants. See the UI Resource page. The order notes can be added or edited across the order header or order line level from various screens such as Order Status Order Creation Order Edit Return order creation Return/Exchange order status Order Notes Click the Notes in the header section in Call Center page. The Notes pop-up window is displayed. In the Note Type drop-down list, select a note type. In the Note text box, enter the appropriate note. Click the  icon to delete a note. Click Save to save the note. Order Line Notes Order line notes are added for individual line items in the order. In the Call Center page, click the icon against the item for which you want to add a note. The Notes pop-up window is displayed. n the Note Type drop-down list, select a note type. In the Note text box, enter the appropriate note. Click the  icon to delete a note. Click Save to save the note. Note: When a user wants to add a new note to an order that currently has no existing notes, clicking on the notes icon will open the order notes pop-up, providing a blank row for the user to enter the note and select the note type. If the order or order line already has existing notes, clicking the notes icon will allow the user to open and edit any of those notes. In this case, an empty row will not be automatically provided; the user will need to click the "+" icon to add a new note to an order or order line with existing notes. Gift Card Payment for an order can be made using a gift card. Refer to Payment for different payment options. If a payment is made for an order using a gift card, you can view the gift card details in the Payment Info section of the Order Status page. Refund Gift Card A refund gift card is provided to the customers as part of appeasement, return, or exchange order payment settlement. If an order is associated with a gift card, the CSR must be able to identify if the gift card has been purchased by the customer or it is a refund gift card. The Call Center page enables you to identify the nature of the gift card. In the item section of the Call Center page, if “Refund Gift Card” appears next to the short description of the item, it indicates that the gift card is a refund gift card. Add Items to an Order Customers may need to add more items to the existing order. In the Call Center page, click Add more items to the order. You are navigated to the Item Search page. Search, select, and add the required items to the shopping cart. Refer to Add Items to Shopping Cart for more information. Override Shipping and Handling Charges Shipping and handling charges are levied to the customer and are commonly referred to as S&H charges. You might encounter instances where you will have to override the charges for the customer. The charges can be overridden on orders in any status, based on the order mod type configuration. Also the Override Shipping and handling charges permission is required to modify the charges. The application provides the ability to override the shipping and handling charges once the charge is available under the Order charges section. To override Shipping and Handling (S&H) charges: In the Order Total section, click the  next to Estimated S&H. The Shipping and Handling Override dialog box appears. Enter the amount in the New Charges field. Select a valid reason code and enter comments for overriding the S&H charges. Click Apply. Revert to original estimated S&H price Click   next to Estimated S&H in the Order Total section. The Shipping and Handling Override dialog box appears. Select Recalculate S&H charges check box to revert the S&H charges of the item to the original value. The default reason code Recalculate S&H charges will be populated in the application automatically when the charges is reverted using this option. Note: The Recalculate S&H charges check box is enabled for selection only when the S&H charges have been overridden at least once. The default reason code Recalculate S&H charges will be populated in the system automatically when the price is reverted using this option. Cancel Items Customers may request cancelation of items in a multiple item order or reduce the quantity of items ordered. Orders can be canceled if the order status is less than 'Partially Released'. Each item ordered in an order is considered an order line. If an order line has units that are partially canceled, the canceled quantities are displayed in order status in lines as "Canceled qty". Cancellation details, such as "Cancel Initiated", may appear with the associated line item. This text is informational to let the user know the cancellation is in progress. Note: if the entire order line is canceled and the user provides a cancel reason and description, that information is accessible from the Order Edit, Order Status and the Return pages by hovering on the red cancel icon next to the order line. Cancellation of Post Release Lines Customers would like to cancel items after they have placed the order. The post release cancellation feature allows BOPIS line cancellation post release until Max Status is PickedUp based on configurations. In the Order Details section of the Call Center page, select the order line and click the cancel (X) icon. In the Cancel Order Line window, select the reason and enter comments for canceling the order line. Click Done. You can now see the cancellation requested message for the canceled order line displayed in the Order Status page. Hold Orders In the Order Details section of the Call Center page, click the   icon, and then select Hold. In the Hold Order window, select a reason and enter the comments for placing the order on hold. Click Done. Cancel Orders In the Order Details section of the Call Center page, click the  icon, and then select Cancel. In the Cancel Order window, select a reason and enter comments for canceling the order. Click Done. Order Timeline In the Order Details section of the Call Center page, click the  icon, and then select Order Timeline. In the Order Timeline window, you can view different timeline of the order. Update delivery Method The Shipping panel in the Call Center page contains the delivery options for each order line on the order To update the delivery method for an order line, perform the following steps: Search and select order. On the Call Center page, click the Shipping tab. In the delivery option section,  click on the preferred delivery option radio button Note: If the order line is being updated from ship to address to pick up at store, then the delivery method subtype will be set to null, instead of the default delivery method subtype selected in call center configuration.