# Need Adjustments

**Permalink:** need-adjustments
**Content Length:** 18,319 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:51.682872

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Configurations&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Strategy ››Need Adjustments Need Adjustments &nbsp; &nbsp; Need AdjustmentsFiltersCreating a Need AdjustmentEditing a Need&nbsp;AdjustmentDetails ViewDeleting a&nbsp;Need Adjustment&nbsp;Field DescriptionAction Buttons This configuration helps the user to create need adjustments in the system in advance of the specified adjustment time period for future start and end dates. Multiple or overlapping adjustments for the same product location are allowed as there may be multiple events driving changes in demand at the same time. Allocators are able to enter these as separate adjustments with individual impacts to demand (+ or - %).&nbsp;&nbsp;Adjustments for the same week are summed up and then applied to the system&#39;s calculated needs.&nbsp; If the user wants to change the product or location hierarchy for need adjustments, they can configure the product or location hierarchy Id in the config value of configuration Id &quot;NeedAdjustmentProductHierarchyId&quot; or&nbsp;&nbsp;&quot;NeedAdjustmentLocationHierarchyId&quot; respectively. &nbsp; Filters The following is the list of filters available on this screen: &nbsp; Adjustment&nbsp;Id Description Adjustment % Start Date End Date Location Hierarchy Level 1 Location Hierarchy Level 2 Location Hierarchy Level 3 Product Hierarchy Level 1 Product Hierarchy Level 2 Product Hierarchy Level 3 Product Hierarchy Level 4 Product Hierarchy Level 5 Creating a Need Adjustment To create a new Need Adjustment: Select&nbsp;Menu &gt; Configurations &gt; Strategy &gt; Need Adjustments Click&nbsp;Create&nbsp;to view the Need Adjustments&nbsp;window. Enter the&nbsp;Adjustment Identifier.&nbsp;This is a required field. Enter the Description for the need adjustments. Enter the Adjustment % value. The valid&nbsp;values are&nbsp; + 999%&nbsp; to - 999%.&nbsp;This is a required field. Select the required option (Yes or No)&nbsp;&nbsp;to Ignore past&nbsp;Adjustment weeks in Need calculation in the post-promotion&nbsp;period.&nbsp; Specify the Location Hierarchy Level 1 from the drop-down list. This is a required field. Specify the Location Hierarchy Level 2 from the drop-down list. Specify the Location Hierarchy Level 3 from the drop-down list. Select the Start Date from the Advanced Date Time Selection&nbsp;window.&nbsp;Need Adjustment StartDate should be start of the week.&nbsp; Select the End Date from the Advanced Date Time Selection&nbsp;window.&nbsp;Need Adjustment EndDate should be end of the week.&nbsp; &nbsp; Enter the values for How many weeks in advance would you like the adjustment to take effect? field.&nbsp;Need is adjusted the defined number of weeks prior to Start and End dates. This configuration can be used to ensure inventory is sent in advance of the Start and End dates.&nbsp;Valid values: 0-52 weeks Specify the Product Hierarchy Level 1&nbsp;from the drop-down list.&nbsp;This is a required field. Specify the Product Hierarchy Level 2&nbsp;from the drop-down list. Specify the Product Hierarchy Level 3&nbsp;from the drop-down list. Specify the Product Hierarchy Level 4&nbsp;from the drop-down list. Specify the Product Hierarchy Level 5&nbsp;from the drop-down list. Select the Product Location Phases from the following&nbsp;options. &nbsp;Pre-Season &nbsp;In-Season &nbsp;End-of-Season Click Save and Finish. &nbsp; Editing a Need&nbsp;Adjustment You can edit the attributes of the existing need adjustments records. &nbsp; Swipe-out List Select&nbsp;Menu &gt; Configurations &gt; Strategy &gt; Need Adjustments Select the required need adjustments&nbsp;record. Swipe-out the menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Edit. In the&nbsp;Need Adjustments&nbsp;window, modify the required fields. Adjustment Id is a non-editable field. Click&nbsp;Save &amp; Close&nbsp;to save the modified record details. Edit View Select the required need adjustments record card. The action buttons are displayed in the footer section. Click&nbsp;Edit&nbsp;to view the&nbsp;Need Adjustments&nbsp;window, modify the required fields. Click&nbsp;Save &amp; Close&nbsp;to save the modified&nbsp;record details. Details View &nbsp; Swipe Out List Select&nbsp;Menu &gt; Configurations &gt; Strategy &gt; Need Adjustments Select the required need adjustments record. Swipe-out menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Details. In the&nbsp;Need Adjustments&nbsp;wizard, you can view the details of the need adjustments records. Details View Select the required record card and you can view the actions buttons displayed on the footer section. Click&nbsp;Details&nbsp;from the action button to view&nbsp;details of the&nbsp;need adjustments records. &nbsp; Deleting a&nbsp;Need Adjustment&nbsp; &nbsp; The need adjustment&nbsp;records can be deleted by following one of the below procedures: Swipe-out List Select Menu &gt; Configurations &gt; Strategy &gt; Need Adjustments Swipe-out menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts as &#39;Deletion of Need Adjustment is irreversible&#39;. Click &#39;Yes&#39; to delete the need adjustment record. Delete Select the required record card. The footer section with action buttons is displayed. Select&nbsp;Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts as &#39;Deletion of Need Adjustment is irreversible&#39;. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the need adjustment record. &nbsp; Field Description The following are the field descriptions of the attributes available on the screen. &nbsp; Field Description Adjustment&nbsp;Id The adjustment identifier. Description The description of the need adjustments. &nbsp; Adjustment % The adjustment percentage value.&nbsp;The same adjustment value will be applied to each week between Start and End Dates. The valid&nbsp;values are&nbsp; - 999%&nbsp; to +999% Ignore past&nbsp;Adjustment weeks in Need calculation This option is used to indicate sales for the weeks between the week&#39;s start and end dates will be skipped in future need calculations. For example,&nbsp;If the method is using past 3 weeks of sales (ex: weeks 8-10) and one of those weeks is marked to be ignored (ex: week 9), the method will use sales from one additional week prior (ex: weeks 7-8, 10).&rdquo; The default option is &#39;No&#39;. Note: This is only required when Need is using metrics, &nbsp;it is not necessary when using plans or forecasts. Location Hierarchy Level 1 The location hierarchy level 1 for need adjustments. This field is mandatory. Location Hierarchy Level 2 The location hierarchy level 2 for need adjustments. Location Hierarchy Level 3 The location hierarchy level 3 for need adjustments. Start Date The start date when the demand is expected to change. The start date should be greater than or equal to the current business date. Note:&nbsp; Week&nbsp;Start and End dates must be full weeks. If Calendar Start Date of week is a Monday, Adjustment Start Date must be a Monday and Adjustment End Date must be a Sunday.&rdquo; End Date The end date when the demand is expected to change.&nbsp;The end date should be greater than or equal to the current business date. Note:&nbsp; Week&nbsp;Start and End dates must be full weeks. If Calendar Start Date of week is a Monday, Adjustment Start Date must be a Monday and Adjustment End Date must be a Sunday.&rdquo; How many weeks in advance would you like the adjustment to take effect? This configuration can be used to ensure inventory is sent in advance of the start and end dates. The&nbsp;need is adjusted the defined number of weeks prior to the start and end dates. Valid Values: 0-52 weeks. Example: Start Date = Dec 5, 2022 and End Date = Dec 11, 2022 and need adjustment is configured to take effect 1 week in advance. Adjustment % will be applied to need calculations between Nov 28 &ndash; Dec 4. Product Hierarchy Level 1 The product hierarchy level 1 for need adjustments. This field is mandatory. Product Hierarchy Level 2 The product hierarchy level 2 for need adjustments.&nbsp; Product Hierarchy Level 3 The product hierarchy level 3 for need adjustments.&nbsp; Product Hierarchy Level 4 The product hierarchy level 4 for need adjustments.&nbsp; Product Hierarchy Level 5 The product hierarchy level 5 for need adjustments.&nbsp; Pre-Season Need adjustment is applied to product locations in the Pre-Season phase during the adjustment start and end dates. Product location with midweek phases are not included unless the week is split between two phases in which the need adjustment is applicable. Product locations must also meet location and product hierarchy criteria for need adjustment to be applied. Yes - This is the default option. In-Season Need adjustment is applied to product locations in the In-Season phase during the adjustment start and end dates. Product location with midweek phases are not included unless the week is split between two phases in which the need adjustment is applicable. Product locations must also meet location and product hierarchy criteria for need adjustment to be applied. Yes - This is the default option. End-of-Season Need adjustment is applied to product locations in the End-Of-Season phase during the adjustment start and end dates. Product location with midweek phases are not included unless the week is split between two phases in which the need adjustment is applicable. Product locations must also meet location and product hierarchy criteria for need adjustment to be applied. Yes - This is the default option. &nbsp; Note:&nbsp;If level N-1 is not provided in the Product and Location Hierarchies,&nbsp;&nbsp;then we are unable to select the value in the next level. Action Buttons Following are the action buttons available on the screen. &nbsp; Select All Rows Selects all the rows of records on the screen. Export Exports the list of need adjustment attributes, and the file will be downloaded onto your system. View&nbsp;Export&nbsp;for more information. Create Opens the&nbsp;Need Adjustments&nbsp;window.&nbsp; Export Data Loader It&nbsp;allows a user to export the data&nbsp;that is returned from the filter on the UI into a spreadsheet format. All fields will be exported. There is no option to select specific fields to be exported.&nbsp;Export Data Loader process is asynchronous. Upon completion of the export, an alert notification will appear on the&nbsp;top right corner of the UI. Import Data Loader It allows a user to import data from a spreadsheet into the system.&nbsp;The user can use the exported spreadsheet as a template for importing new data into the system.&nbsp; When this import data loader button is clicked, the user is presented with a modal where they can choose the file name and the location to upload from.&nbsp;&nbsp; Upon completion of the import,&nbsp;an alert notification will appear on the top right corner of the UI.&nbsp; Details Opens the&nbsp;Need Adjustments&nbsp;window displaying details of the selected record. Deselect Clears the selected records. Edit Opens the relevant&nbsp;Need Adjustments&nbsp;window. Delete Deletes the selected record.