# Netherlands

**Permalink:** netherlands
**Content Length:** 6,267 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:35:54.027697

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Point of Sale&rsaquo;&rsaquo;POS Classic Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;POS Classic Fiscalization and Globalization ››Netherlands &nbsp;Netherlands OverviewTax ConfigurationReceipt ConfigurationArchivingServices Overview The Netherlands is also often called &#39;Holland&#39;, which refers to the 2 western coastal provinces, North and South Holland. Belastingdienst (Tax Administration) is the government organization responsible for imposing and collecting taxes on behalf of the state, and implementing various allowances and schemes for Dutch residents. There are no fiscalization rules currently* or other regulations specifically dedicated to the topic. Language: The only official language in the Netherlands is Dutch. Dutch, often referred to as &quot;Nederlands,&quot; serves as the primary medium of communication, government affairs, education, and media.. Although there are no explicit legal requirements, it is assumed that the POS application should support this&nbsp;language. As per the receipts themselves, it is also expected that they are presented in Dutch, and&nbsp;English could be an exception. The locale can be configured as detailed in the localization configuration guide. Currency:&nbsp;The official currency of Netherlands is &quot;EURO&quot;. The official currency code (ISO currency standard) is &quot;EUR&quot;.&nbsp; The currency denomination can be configured as detailed in the localization configuration guide. Tax Configuration In the Netherlands, consumers pay value added tax (VAT) on all goods and services they buy.&nbsp; VAT is included in the price. The consumer pays the VAT to the trader, who then remits it to the Tax and Customs Administration.&nbsp; VAT Identification number You use your VAT identification (VAT ID) for all your contacts with customers and suppliers. This shows that you are a VAT-registered entrepreneur. For example, you put your VAT ID on your stationery, invoices and website. VAT ID looks like this: VAT ID: NL123456789B01 ✓ country code NL ✓ 9 digits ✓ letter B ✓ 2 digits, also called &#39;subnumber&#39;&nbsp; VAT&nbsp;Rates*: VAT rates are categorized into buckets below. Standard/Normal tax rate 21% Special tax rate: 9% (foods, water, books, periodicals, medicines, art, selling food in catering industry, etc.)&nbsp; Zero tax&nbsp;rate: 0% * The fiscal guidelines and numbers i.e.&nbsp;tax rates&nbsp;are as of March-2024, which might be subjected to change as per local laws. VAT Tax Configuration:&nbsp;The information about configuring the country&nbsp;as VAT is&nbsp;detailed in the localization configuration guide. Receipt Configuration A receipt is a conclusive document that confirms that payment has been made for a service/goods.&nbsp;A generated receipt needs to include: Store information - Name and address of the receipt issues&nbsp; Date and time of issue Item names Total amount paid and VAT breakdown Receipt&nbsp;number All additional information such as pictures, barcodes, QR codes, promotional messages, etc. can be included as there are no legal requirements. Receipt Configuration: Configuring receipts specific for a country&nbsp;is&nbsp;detailed in the localization configuration guide. Archiving You should keep all transaction data and receipts that you send or receive from your company and this is mandatory, because they must be available for check by the authorities. All information about your organization that you receive or record (on paper or digitally) belongs to your administration.&nbsp; All your company details, both on paper and digital, are part of your records.&nbsp;The receipts should be kept for 7 years.&nbsp; Services There are no specific services exposed for Netherlands localization.