# Network View and User Access

**Permalink:** network-view-and-user-access
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning/Process &amp; Configuration Guides/Strategy/Configuration/Network View and User Access
**Content Length:** 24,115 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:09:30.318381

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning››Process & Configuration Guides››Strategy/Configuration ››Network View and User Access Network View and User Access Previous I Next OverviewUser Access for Allocation Users (Allocators) in Supply Chain PlanningSteps to configure Allocation User (Allocator) Access using Item and Inventory AttributesConfigure Item and Inventory attributes for setting up the Allocator Access filter Configure Supply Access filter using the attributes configuredAssign a supply access filter to corresponding usersConfiguration for Admin Users in AllocationScreens In scope for Allocator Access Configuration in AllocationUser Access for Replenishment Users (Buyers) in Supply Chain PlanningConfiguration for setting up a team of Admin Users in Supply Chain PlanningScreens In scope for Buyer Access Configuration in Supply Chain Planning Overview User responsibilities in retail organizations are typically divided based on some item or location attributes, such as department or region. Users responsible for one department or region should not be able to view or manipulate data for other departments or regions. For example, an Allocator or buyer who is responsible for the menswear department should not have access to data for the womenswear department, and vice versa. Business Administrators in retail organizations will configure user access for respective items, locations, or any other business entities based on user roles, say normal users, superusers or managers. Business administrators in retail organizations configure user access based on the users' roles—whether they are normal users, superusers, or managers. Access is granted according to the specific role, with different configurations in place for Allocation and Supply Chain Planning users. User Access for Allocation Users (Allocators) in Supply Chain Planning Allocator responsibility in retail organizations can be defined by item and inventory attributes. For example : User 1 is responsible for allocating inventory for the Menswear department. User 2 is responsible for allocating inventory for the Womenswear department and Brand Nike. User 3 is responsible for allocating inventory for the Womenswear department and Brand Adidas. User 4 is a superuser and is a supervisor for Users 1, 2 and 3. User 5 is an admin user who will have visibility of inventory and allocations across all item and inventory attributes. Allocator access for all the above examples can be configured based on Item and Inventory attribute values in the Supply Access Filter as explained below. Steps to configure Allocation User (Allocator) Access using Item and Inventory Attributes Configure Item and Inventory attributes for setting up the Allocator Access filter Add item and inventory attributes used for configuring user access. Entity : aiui-facade/supplyAttributeAccessConfig For example, Department, Class, Inventory Attribute1 etc. Sample Json: Configure Seed data for Allocation User Access POST: {{url}}/api/aiui-facade//supplyAttributeAccessConfig/save { "ProfileId": "base", "data": [ { "AttributeName": "DepartmentId", "Description": "Department attribute" }, { "AttributeName": "ClassId", "Description": "Class attribute" }, { "AttributeName": "SubclassId", "Description": "Subclass attribute" }, { "AttributeName": "InventoryAttribute1", "Description": "Inventory attribute 1" } ] } Values of the configured attributes will be seen in the supply access filter dropdown explained below. Configure Supply Access filter using the attributes configured Create Supply Access Filter using values of Item and Inventory Attributes For example: Supply Access Filter1: Item Attribute = Department, Value = Mens Department. Inventory attribute = Inventory Attribute 1 (Banner), Value = Nike US Supply Access Filter2: Item Attribute = Department, Value = Mens Department. Inventory attribute = Inventory Attribute 1 (Banner), Value = Nike Europe UI Link : /scp/screen/aiui-facade/SupplyAccessFilter Assign a supply access filter to corresponding users Assign users to various supply access filters configured in the previous step. For example : User 1 : Supply Access Filter 1 User 2 : Supply Access Filter 2 UI Link : /scp/screen/aiui-facade/UserAccessFilter Configuration for Admin Users in Allocation Admin users will have access to all data across the item categories and inventory attribute values without any separate configuration. Add the following resource id for the Admin User Role. { "RoleId": "SystemAdministrator", "OrganizationId": "System", "ResourceId": "NetworkView::admin" } Note: This grant should be excluded for normal users (allocators). Screens In scope for Allocator Access Configuration in Allocation Data in the following screens is configured by the User access configuration mentioned above: Allocated Supplies Unallocated Supplies Allocator's console (Except the KPI analysis widgets) Data on other screens, like configuration screens (item, item-locations, locations etc.) is not controlled by user access configuration. User Access for Replenishment Users (Buyers) in Supply Chain Planning User Access for Replenishment Users (Buyers) in Supply Chain Planning can be set up by location origin (DC or Origin store) and destination (destination store). Replenishment responsibilities can be handled by a single buyer or a team of buyers. Any member from the team of buyers can acces the data and take respective actions to manage inventory for their team. For example, User 1 and User2 are part of Team1, which is responsible for Store 1-5 for DC1, User 3 is a part of Team 2, which is responsible for Store 6-10 for DC1. User 4 is a part of Team 3, which is responsible for all stores of DC2. User 4 is a superuser and a supervisor for User 1,2 and 3 and hence part of both teams 1 and 2. User 5 is an admin user who will have access to data for all locations and who will configure the user access. Buyer access for all the above examples can be configured based on team assignment for sourcing relationship as explained below. 1. Create Buyer Teams: Create teams of users (buyers) responsible for one or more sourcing relationships. UI : /scp/screen/organization/Team Note: Users can be part of one or more teams. 2. Assign a team to the respective sourcing relationships Api : POST {{url}}/api/itemlocation/sourcingRelationshipForUserAccess/save Based on the above configurations, when respective user's login, they will see the data based on the user access setup. For example : Team Users Sourcing Relationship West Coast team User 1, User 2, Super User 1 West Coast DC1 - Str1, West Coast DC1 - Str2 East Coast Team User 3, User 4, Super User 1 East Coast DC1 - Str3, East Coast DC1 - Str4 Null User 5 Null No Team Assignment Null Central DC - Str5 Admin Team Admin User 1, Admin User 2 All When User 1 and User 2 log in, they will see data for West Coast DC1-Str1 and West Coast DC1-Str2 sourcing relationships. When User 3 and User 4 log in, they will see data for West Coast DC1-Str1 and West Coast DC1-Str2 sourcing relationships. When User 5 logs in, they see no data. When Super User1 logs in, they will see all data except for the Central DC- Str5 sourcing relationship. When Admin User 1 logs in, they will see all the data including for Central DC- Str5 sourcing relationship. Configuration for setting up a team of Admin Users in Supply Chain Planning Set up the values of the following parameters in Item-Location component parameters. Set up the value of "EnableNetworkViews" to true to enable filtering screens by team assignment. Set up the value of "Admin" as per the business requirements for the administrator team. For example, the SCP Admin Team Sample Json: Post: {{url}}/itemlocation/api/itemlocation/itemLocationParameters/save { "ItemLocationParametersId": "ItemLocationParameters", "GradeItemHierarchyId": "primary", "ConstraintItemHierarchyId": "primary", "SizeProfileItemHierarchyId": "primary", "ModelStoreItemHierarchyId": "primary", "ModelStoreItemLevelId": "SubclassId", "EnrichAllItemLocationAttributes": "false", "ModelMetricsComputationThreshold": "13", "ForecastingNotificationEnabled": "false", "EnrichFirstSaleDateEnabled": "true", "ConstraintLocationHierarchyId": "primary", "LocationAccessGroupHierarchyId": "primary",} "InitialSystemLoad":"false", "EnableNetworkViews":"true", "Admin":"SCP Admin" } Screens In scope for Buyer Access Configuration in Supply Chain Planning Data on the following screens is filtered according to the user access configuration mentioned above: Suggested Orders Orders (Order Lines out of scope) Item Locations Analysis Sourcing Relationships Inventory Console If users are part of multiple teams, they are able to select teams from the team filter in these screens.(Except for the Inventory Console) Note : The Team Filter is not available on the Inventory Console screen. Data in the Inventory Console widgets will be displayed for all teams that the respective team members are a part of.