# New Item Location Auto-Associaton

**Permalink:** new-item-location
**Content Length:** 11,415 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:37:23.336583

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process &amp; Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Demand Forecasting ››New Item Location Auto-Associaton New Item Location Auto-Association&nbsp; Previous&nbsp;I&nbsp;Next OverviewProcess FlowUnmatched Item Location UI - Auto Associate Functionality&nbsp;Configurations:- Overview When new item locations are added, users previously had to manually assign them to a forecast policy and run forecast initialization for the entire policy, which would potentially affect existing forecasts and orders. This new logic reduces such manual effort by automating and simplifying the forecast generation process for newly added item locations. Process Flow &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Initial System Load and Lifecycle Configuration Check: This process occurs in the Item Location Master component, during the initial system setup, where the &quot;Initial System Load&quot; configuration must be set to &ldquo;TRUE.&rdquo; This ensures that item locations created during setup do not individually trigger downstream processes such as forecast initialization. Instead, policy-level actions are recommended for the initial setup. Once the setup is complete, the &quot;Initial System Load&quot; configuration in the Global Config UI is set to &ldquo;FALSE.&rdquo; After this, the system checks the lifecycle configuration settings for newly added item locations in the Item Location component. If &quot;Bypass All Processing&quot; is enabled in the Lifecycle configuration settings on the item location UI , the auto-association process is halted. To proceed, disable the &quot;Bypass All Processing&quot; option. Notifications are then sent to the Forecast component to process new item locations. Auto Association process: The system searches for a forecast policy with a matching item location filter: If a match is found: the records are sent to the Forecast initialization(FI) job, which runs at specified intervals to generate forecast values. Unmatched Item Locations: If no matching forecast policy is found, the new item locations are displayed on the Unmatched Item Location UI where users will need to take a few manual actions. Manual Action for Unmatched Items: Users can resolve unmatched item locations by: Adding them to the filter conditions of an existing forecast policy, or Creating a new forecast policy for these locations. After adding the unmatched items to the forecast policy, users can click the Auto Associate button on the Unmatched Item Location UI to rerun the process, ensuring that all item locations are accounted for in forecast generation. Once the process re-runs and the user is notified on the process completion, the user should verify that there are no records found on the unmatched item location UI. If the records still exist, it means that the forecast policies were incorrectly configured. Unmatched Item Location UI - Auto Associate Functionality&nbsp; Use the Auto Associate button to run the auto-association process for selected item locations. Use the Auto Associate All button to run the auto-association process for all item locations listed in the UI, regardless of page count. Note: The Forecast Policy UI includes an &ldquo;Auto Associate New Item Location&rdquo; field that must be set to &ldquo;YES&rdquo; for the policy to be eligible for matching. If set to &ldquo;NO,&rdquo; the policy will be excluded from the auto-association process, even if its filter conditions match unmatched item locations. As a result, no forecasts will be created for those item locations. This feature ensures that all item locations are accounted for in the forecasting process, thereby enhancing the precision and effectiveness of order generation. Configurations:- API to load the item location records on the unmatched item location UI: {{url}}/ai-forecast/api/ai-forecast/unmatchedItemLocation/save { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;UnmatchedItemLocationId&quot;: &quot;UM01&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ItemId&quot;:&quot;Item1&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;LocationId&quot;:&quot;Location1&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ProcessTypeId&quot;:&quot;FI&quot; } &nbsp; API to Trigger Auto Association {{url}}/ai-forecast//api/ai-forecast/unmatchedItemLocation/autoAssociate &quot;data&quot;: [ &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;UnmatchedItemLocationId&quot;: &quot;uilid1&quot; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; }, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;UnmatchedItemLocationId&quot;: &quot;uilid2&quot; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; }, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;UnmatchedItemLocationId&quot;: &quot;uilid3&quot; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; } &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; ] &nbsp; Services The&nbsp;APIs listed in the following table are referenced in this document. Refer to the API documentation for additional details on&nbsp;each service. Service Component Group Service Endpoint Unmatched Item Location Forecast &nbsp; {{url}}/ai-forecast/api/ai-forecast/unmatchedItemLocation/save