# New Store Modeling

**Permalink:** new-store-modeling
**Content Length:** 15,740 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:37:37.415322

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process &amp; Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Replenishment ››New Store Modeling New Store Modeling Previous&nbsp;I&nbsp;Next OverviewProcess FlowConfigurationsStep 1: Configure Model Store SetupStep 2: Trigger Store ModelingStep 3: Notification on Store Modeling CompletionStep 4: Review and Apply Modeling ResultsUIsRelated Articles Overview When retailers open new stores, there is no sufficient history or forecast for the items, selling in these new stores to create replenishment orders. In this case, retailers benchmark the performance numbers of items selling in new stores to the same items selling in existing similar stores. This&nbsp;process is called new store modeling. In new store&nbsp;modeling, key performance data for items in existing stores&nbsp;is copied over to the item-locations for the new stores. This performance data could be historical sales (metric), forecast and key item-location attributes like Slow mover, Velocity code etc. &nbsp; Process Flow Configurations &nbsp; Step 1: Configure Model Store Setup Users can configure the model stores and attributes to be copied for modeling to the new store (target). The following attributes are available for copying to the target store: Forecast Attributes: Forecast, Standard Deviation, Lost Sales Adjust Factor, Seasonal Profile, Smoothing Policy. Item Location Attributes: Target Service Level, Velocity Code, Slow Mover, Buying Multiple, Supplier Fill Rate. Users can also have the following configurations for the modeling process: Conversion Rate: Conversion rate is the&nbsp;multiplier for the attribute value to be copied. It is applicable only to the forecast value. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; For example, if the forecast is 10 and the conversion rate is 2, the value of the forecast copied will be 20. Copy Model Demand: When this configuration is true, only the historical sales (metric) value will be copied to the target store. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;This configuration is applicable only to the allocatable items. Auto-Apply Modeling Result: When this configuration is true, the modeling results will be automatically applied (selected attributes are copied over to the target store). Once the model store set up is complete, users&nbsp;can review the store modeling setup before triggering the modeling process. Note: In the case of multiple model stores, the attribute values from the highest-ranked stores will be copied to the target stores. Step 2: Trigger Store Modeling After reviewing the model store setup, users can trigger the modeling to copy the data from model stores to target stores. Store Modeling can be triggered by selecting the Submit button on the Model Store Setup screen. Step 3: Notification on Store Modeling Completion Once the modeling process is completed, users are notified about the modeling process completion. On completion of store modeling, the attributes are not copied over to the target stores, but users can review&nbsp;the attribute values that will be copied over. Step 4: Review and Apply Modeling Results Users can review the results of modeling by seeing the values of attributes that will be copied over to the target store. Once they are satisfied with the attribute values that will be copied over to the target store&#39;s item-locations, they can decide to apply the modeling results. On apply, the value of attributes will be copied over to the target store. The statuses of Modeling Results are&nbsp;also displayed on the Review Modeling Results screen. The following are the statuses for modeling results: In Progress : Modeling in Progress Completed : Modeling submission is complete Submission Failed : Modeling submission failed. Applied : Modeling results applied Apply Failed : Modeling result application failed &nbsp; Examples: Example 1: Single Model Store, Conversion Rate = 1 Model Store Setup Target Store&nbsp; Model Store Conversion Rate Forecast&nbsp; Velocity Code Slow Mover Atlanta Store New York Store 1 10 A Yes &nbsp; On Applying Modeling Results Target Store Forecast&nbsp; Velocity Code Slow Mover Atlanta Store 10 A Yes &nbsp; Example 2:&nbsp;Single Model Store, Conversion Rate = 2 Model Store Setup Target Store&nbsp; Model Store Conversion Rate Forecast&nbsp; Velocity Code Slow Mover Atlanta Store New York Store 2 10 A Yes &nbsp; On Applying Modeling Results Target Store Forecast&nbsp; Velocity Code Slow Mover Atlanta Store 20 A Yes &nbsp; Example 3:&nbsp;Multiple Model Store, Conversion Rate = 2 Model Store Setup Target Store&nbsp; Model Store Conversion Rate Forecast&nbsp; Velocity Code Slow Mover Atlanta Store Chicago Store (Rank1) 2 15 B Yes &nbsp; New York Store (Rank 2) 2 10 A Yes On Applying Modeling Results Target Store Forecast&nbsp; Velocity Code Slow Mover Atlanta Store 30 (From Rank 1 Store) B Yes &nbsp; UIs UI Name Component Group Seed Data Present? Model Store Setup Item and Store Modeling No Modeling Results Item and Store Modeling No &nbsp; Related Articles Bulk Update Batch UpdateItem Location DeactivationOrder GroupCalendar Build Pattern and ExceptionReplenishment - OverviewHub and SpokeLead Time ForecastingConstrained Supply AllocationMaximum Economic Order Cycle DaysSOQ ComputationBreak Point PricingPlanogram