# New Zealand

**Permalink:** new-zealand
**Content Length:** 6,736 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:35:39.000396

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Point of Sale&rsaquo;&rsaquo;POS Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;POS Fiscalization and Globalization ››New Zealand New Zealand OverviewTax ConfigurationReceipt ConfigurationArchivingServices Overview New Zealand&#39;s&nbsp;main state institution engaged in economic and tax topics is the Inland Revenue Department.&nbsp;Regarding fiscalization rules, currently (Q3 2024) there are no specific laws or other regulations specifically dedicated to the topic.&nbsp; &nbsp; However, the way of handling transactions and issuing receipts can be concluded from the explanations provided below. Language:&nbsp; English is the predominant language and a de facto official language of New Zealand. Almost the entire population speak it either as native speakers or proficiently as a second language. The New Zealand English dialect is most similar to Australian English in pronunciation, with some key differences.&nbsp;Although there are no explicit legal requirements, it is assumed that the POS application should support English language as it is&nbsp;the de facto official and national language of New Zealand.&nbsp; As per the receipts/invoices themselves, it is also expected that they are created in English.&nbsp; The locale can be configured as detailed in the&nbsp;localization configuration&nbsp;guide. Currency:&nbsp;The official currency of New Zealand is &quot;New Zealand Dollar&quot;. The official currency code (ISO currency standard) is &quot;NZD&quot;.&nbsp; The currency denomination can be configured as detailed in the&nbsp;localization configuration&nbsp;guide. Tax Configuration Goods and services tax (GST) is a tax of 15% on most goods, services and other items sold or consumed in New Zealand.To charge GST, you need to register your business for it with IRD. If your business earns over $60,000 in 12 months, you must register it for GST. If you earn less than $60,000, you can still choose to register for GST.&nbsp; Tax Configuration:&nbsp;The information about configuring taxes&nbsp;is&nbsp;detailed in the&nbsp;localization configuration&nbsp;guide. Receipt Configuration A receipt is a conclusive document that confirms that payment has been made for a service/goods.&nbsp;A generated receipt needs to include: Company information Date and time of issue Retailer&#39;s GST number and Buyer&#39;s Details are required based on the transaction amount. Transaction amount less than $200. Retailer&#39;s GST number and buyer&#39;s Details are not required &nbsp; Transaction is more than $200 but less than $1000. The retailers&#39; GST number is required, but Buyer&#39;s Details are not required. Transaction was more than $1000. The retailer&#39;s GST number and Buyer&#39;s details are required.&nbsp; Item description and prices Quantity Total amount paid and taxes paid separately Other standard receipt practices like StoreId, RegisterId, Receipt number do not harm. Additionally, best practice is also to include items. All additional information such as pictures, barcodes, QR codes, promotional messages, etc. can be included as there are no legal requirements. Receipt Configuration: Configuring receipts specific for a country&nbsp;is&nbsp;detailed in the&nbsp;localization configuration&nbsp;guide. Archiving Receipts and related documentation, such as sale orders and receipts, need to be stored for record-keeping and auditing purposes. In New Zealand, the ATO rule is currently 5 years. Work with services team&nbsp;organization&nbsp;if you want to&nbsp;use electronic document management systems for easy and efficient document storage and retrieval.&nbsp;Whether you keep printed or electronic records is up to you.&nbsp; Services There are no specific services exposed for New Zealand localization. &nbsp; &nbsp; * The fiscal guidelines and numbers (annual turn over, tax rates)&nbsp;are as of Aug-2024, which might be subjected to change as per local laws.