# NPS Survey

**Permalink:** nps-survey
**Content Length:** 4,427 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:33:47.787201

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Digital Self-Service ››NPS Survey NPS Survey&nbsp; OverviewNPS Survey in Digital Self-ServiceHow to Test Overview Manhattan&nbsp;Active&reg; Omni offers a feature to capture customer feedback in a Net Promoter Score (NPS) survey. This survey can be accessed by a link embedded anywhere, such as a shipment confirmation email or a retailer&#39;s website. Each NPS rating is saved on the order, providing valuable insights into customer experiences and sentiment about their ordering experience. Refer here&nbsp;for more information. NPS Survey in Digital Self-Service To enable the NPS Survey feature in Digital Self-Service, a new link must be added to the appropriate email templates. The email templates that are recommended to be updated are: &nbsp;Order Confirmation Shipment Confirmation&nbsp; &nbsp;Pickup&nbsp;Confirmation Out of the box, this has been added as a &quot;Rate Your Experience&quot;&nbsp;button link in the Shipment confirmation email template. When the customer clicks the link,&nbsp;they are directed to the NPS Survey page. This page&nbsp;presents the user with one question and can capture the rating and optional comments. The question can be modified using a localizable value. The rating values are from 0 to 10; the &quot;not likely&quot; localizable label is displayed under the rating number 0 and the &quot;most likely&quot; localizable label is displayed under the rating number 10.&nbsp; The user can provide feedback by clicking on a rating, entering optional comments and clicking submit; this saves these values in association with the order. This is valid for any order, that is, customer, return and exchange orders. Once&nbsp;the rating and comments are submitted, a success message is displayed.&nbsp; A widget-style NPS survey is also available on the Shipment Tracking and Return Tracking pages; more information can be found here.&nbsp; How to Test Create an order. Navigate to the&nbsp;NPS Survey URL directly by&nbsp;forming the URL&nbsp;in your browser, or launch the page from an email such as &#39;Shipment Confirmation.&#39; Click on one rating and optionally add comments. Click on Submit. Confirm changes via Postman API.