# Warehouse Management (WM) Integration

**Original Permalink:** om/warehouse_management
**Safe Filename:** om__warehouse_management
**Content Length:** 12,489 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:22:43.182381

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Processing&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Fulfillment&rsaquo;&rsaquo;WM Integration ››Warehouse Management (WM) Integration &nbsp; Active Omni - Warehouse Management (WM) Integration Omni - WM&nbsp;Touch PointsMaster DataInventoryPlanning FlowsReceiving OperationsInventory OperationsInventory SyncOrder FlowCSR Flow Omni - WM&nbsp;Touch Points The Active Omni and Warehouse Management (WM) integration enhances &nbsp;real-time visibility and efficiency of order allocation and inventory availability. Active Omni is the solution for customer demands for selling, service and order fulfillment processes. The information flow is mainly by inbound order/inventory and outbound inventory/order flow through&nbsp;sales and purchase orders. Warehouse management manages a wide range of processes associated with order fulfillment, receiving inventory into the warehouse, and tracking/shipping&nbsp;to customers.&nbsp; The Active Omni and Warehouse Management (WM) integration helps in maintaining real-time visibility of the virtual allocation from Active Omni to actual hard allocation in the WM system. This&nbsp;integration has the following advantages: Real-time visibility into perpetual inventory at the Distribution Center (DC) DC perpetual inventory is used to calculate the inventory availability picture in the active Omni system. Fulfillment of the orders at DC Active Omni communicates criticality of the orders to the WM system Shipment of orders is updated from the WM system to the Active Omni system. On-hand inventory is updated by the inventory sync process. Both systems (WM and Omni) will have the same inventory This document is intended for users implementing both Manhattan WM (WMOS and WMi)&nbsp;and Manhattan Active Omni together. The general touch points in an integrated OM / WM deployment are illustrated below. The integration is grouped into four main categories: Master Data Inventory Management Order Flow Returns &nbsp; Master Data The static data&nbsp;such as an item, facility and a location are&nbsp;synced simultaneously&nbsp;with the Omni Active and WM systems.&nbsp; &nbsp;Item and facility information (DC, Suppliers, Stores, and others) is sent from HOST to both WM&nbsp;and Omni. The appropriate parameters and&nbsp;finite values should be maintained in both systems to ensure that the items and facilities are created successfully in&nbsp;both systems.&nbsp;Purchase Order and ASN are also synced with WM and Active OMNI. Inventory Inventory integration provides the Active Omni with real time visibility into the WM perpetual inventory. The WM perpetual inventory records keep updating dynamically due to scenarios such as inventory receipts, adjustments, and movements. WM being the actual record of DC inventory, WM will send the inventory updates to Active Omni. This way, the Active Omni&nbsp;perpetual inventory records are updated to be in sync with WM actual records. For better understanding of the flow, the process of inventory management is categorized into the following flows.&nbsp; Planning Flows Purchase orders are sent from the host system to both WM and Omni&nbsp;systems. Similar purchase orders are created on both Omni and WM systems with the same purchase order IDs. The attributes of purchase orders must&nbsp;be updated, canceled, and closed in both host system and WM and Active Omni systems. Receiving Operations Inventory Operations Inventory operations are also called inventory movements. The net quality will not change because&nbsp;of the transaction. Movements impact hand inventory, which happens before ASN verification or after ASN verification. On receiving the movements, the Omni updates the appropriate on-hand inventory. Inventory Sync As the perpetual system of record, WM&nbsp;publishes the on-hand inventory to external systems in a batch process called the Inventory Sync. Active Omni consumes the Inventory Sync and ensures that there is no variance between OM and WM. Order Flow The order flow touch point is used to update the fulfillment&nbsp;of an order DO at DC.&nbsp;Retail Orders and Customer Orders can be created within the active Omni UI or interfaced with various order capture systems (such as eComm systems, replenishment systems, in-store order entry, mobile applications, customer service call centers and so on). For each sales order, Omni selects the appropriate fulfillment location and reserves the inventory as soft allocation. CSR Flow The customer is instructed to call a customer service representative (CSR) in order to create a return and obtain a return label. When a return is created, the system generates a return shipping label with a unique return reference number bar code (the return label is emailed to the customer). Customers use this return label to ship the items back to a return center.&nbsp;Once the customer contacts a CSR with a request to return the Order, Active Omni creates a Return Order and sends a Return ASN to WM.&nbsp; WM receives the returns package and communicates the Inventory updates to Active OMNI and then sends an ASN verification message to complete the receiving process.