# Omni Alerts

**Permalink:** omni-alerts
**Content Length:** 11,831 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:39:24.972275

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Administrator Tools&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Global Utilities&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Seeded Alerts ››Omni Alerts Omni Alerts &nbsp; Overview Using the Alert-notification framework, there are a lot of functional alerts available in Manhattan Active&reg; Omni which users can subscribe to and get user or email notifications.&nbsp; To enable these alerts, the users would have to enable the Alert Name from the Alerts UI by adding the user Id or the email Id for receiving notifications. Details about how to configure the user or email are provided in the&nbsp;Alerts Framework&nbsp;guide. Additionally, the user will need to explicitly configure a functional metric trigger and associate the Trigger name as the Prom Metric Name associated with the alert and then configure a required threshold. Threshold configurations are explained in the Functional&nbsp;Metric Trigger Guide. &nbsp; Omni Alerts Alert Type Functional Description Alert Type & Corresponding Functional Metric Name in () Metric Window (Frequency) Aggregation Window Alert Threshold Metrics Inventory Sync Failure Functional Metric Trigger Inbound sync failure &nbsp; inventory_sync_validation_failed (Inventory sync failure) 15 minutes 60 minutes Min: 0 Max: 1 Inventory Sync Aged Open Invoices Functional Metric Trigger Alert will be triggered if Invoices stuck in Open status for more than 26 hours&hellip; &hellip;and number of open invoices increases over the period of time compared to previous day by X # or Y% Indicates some issue with the payment settlement process aged_open_invoice (Aging open Invoice) 15 minutes 60 minutes Min: 0 Max: 10000 AgedOpenInvoice Unavailable Payment Transactions Functional Metric Trigger Payment transactions are flagged as unavailable, indicating that there is a problem with the payment gateway. More details about how increase function works are described in this section of the guide. payment_transaction (Unavailable payment transaction) 15 minutes 60 minutes Min: 0 Max: 50000 &nbsp; PaymentTransaction Aged Open Orders Functional Metric Trigger Detects and sends notification when there are more than XX open orders aged more than 15 min aging_open_order_2_3h (Aging Open Order) 15 minutes 60 minutes Min: 0 Max: 500 AgingOpenOrder Vital Orders Functional Metric Trigger Alert will be triggered if the created order count is zero for high volume customers in the last 15 mins functional_vitals_order (Vital orders/ No orders) 15 minutes 60 minutes Min: 1 Max: 1 VitalOrders POS App Crash Functional Metric Trigger Alert when there are more than 4 app crash across store &nbsp; pos_app_crash 15 minutes 60 minutes Min: 0 Max: 4 &nbsp; Aged Fulfillment Orders - Ship to Address Functional Metric Trigger Number of BOPIS fulfillments Open more than a day by store &gt; threshold number Number of STS fulfillments Open more than a day &gt; threshold number Total open fulfillment Query - open Fulfillments by DeliveryMethod and by store. &nbsp; Aged Fulfillment orders - open_ship_to_address_orders 60 minutes 60 minutes Min: 0 Max ]: 100 &nbsp; Aged Fulfillment Orders - Pickup Functional Metric Trigger Number of BOPIS fulfillments Open more than a day by store &gt; threshold number Number of STS fulfillments Open more than a day &gt; threshold number Total open fulfillment Query - open Fulfillments by DeliveryMethod and by store. Aged Fulfillment orders - open_pickup_at_store_orders 60 minutes 60 minutes Min: 0 Max: 50 &nbsp; Edge Server Status Functional Metric Trigger Fires when a scheduled startup job in edge server failed completion. Startup Job is scheduled to run and check if the edge server is running, in case that the server is down it will bring it up, so it is critical for the business that the store offline server is up and synced with the central server configurations all the time. Edge Server Status 5 minutes 60 minutes Min: 0 Max: 0 &nbsp; &nbsp; Concepts Increase Function The increase function will compare the previous count of failures (according to the group by fields) and compare it with the current one hour of failures, and if and only if there is an increase, then it will be captured. That is, the previous failure count is, say, 100, and in the current hour, the failure count is 120; then, the increase is calculated as 20 and will be considered a candidate for the alert. Even if the increase is just 1, it will raise the alert. However, if the MHE failures count for the current hour remains the same as 100 or becomes less than 100, this will not trigger the alert. The alert notification UI&#39;s min and max threshold values can configure the increased function value. If we set the max threshold value to, say, 5, then the alert will be triggered only when the increase is 5. Or if we set the minimum threshold value to, say, 10, the alert will be triggered only until the increase is less than 10. &nbsp; Metric Frequency This is the frequency in which a query will be triggered to fetch data from a read replica database and move it to Prometheus. The configuration is done within a wiretap and is hardcoded separately for each alert through seed data. &nbsp; Aggregation Window This is a time window configuration within the alert notification framework, which allows aggregating or consolidating all the information fetched using wiretap and using the information to see if any alert needs to be triggered. Generally, the aggregation window configuration should be the same or more than the frequency at which the data is fetched from a database using a wiretap. This is configurable through Alert Type definition using Alerts UI. Please refer to the&nbsp;Alerts Framework&nbsp;guide&nbsp;for more information.