# Order Due

**Permalink:** order-due-2-2
**Content Length:** 19,832 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:03.973405

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process &amp; Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Build ››Order Due Order Due Previous&nbsp;I&nbsp;Next &nbsp; OverviewProcess FlowDifferent Types of Order Due Methods :Delay is ZeroConfigurationHow to set up Order Due at Sourcing Relationship?How to set up Order Due at Order Group?Implementation FlavorsUIs and EntitiesServicesTroubleshootingRelated Articles Overview &nbsp; An Order Due&nbsp;refers to an order that needs to be placed or processed today or the particular day, typically due to specific conditions or triggers. An Order Due&nbsp;basically tells&nbsp;when orders must be placed, and it acts immediately based on current inventory needs, scheduling, and the specific policies to maintain optimal stock levels and avoid disruptions. &nbsp; There are three ways an order becomes due : Due based on Schedule - An order becomes due on specific days of the week, as configured in the Sourcing Relationship or Order Group. Due based on Stockout -&nbsp;An order is due when the system identifies a risk of missing the relationship’s service goal, typically when an Order Delay is 0.&nbsp; Due based on Active Bracket Minimum - An order is due on any valid review day when the order total meets the active bracket minimum requirement. These have been divided into&nbsp;6&nbsp;different Order Due methods that can be configured by the user. &nbsp; &nbsp; Process Flow Order Due Configuration : Review days : The designated review days are considered the order due days. For an order to be processed, it must be due on a designated review day; otherwise, it will not be processed. Review days can be configured at both the Sourcing Relationship and Order Group levels. Refer to the relevant sections on how to set review days for Sourcing Relationships and Order Groups. If a Sourcing Relationship is part of an Order Group, the review day settings from the Order Group take precedence. If the Sourcing Relationship is not part of any Order Group, the system uses the review day settings from the Sourcing Relationship itself.&nbsp;&nbsp; Order Due Method : Once the system identifies the review days, it then checks the order due method. There are six different types of order due methods, which can be configured by the user. Refer&nbsp;to the section on the different types of Order Due Methods&nbsp;and Details for further reference. Based on configurations,&nbsp;the system computes when an order is due and updates the Inventory Movement Summary. &nbsp; &nbsp; Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Review Days - Setting 1 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Review Days - Setting 2 No Yes Yes No Yes Yes Yes &nbsp; Different Types of Order Due Methods : Method Description Active Bracket Minimum The order is due when it meets the active bracket minimum requirement, when the suggested order total exceeds the bracket minimum. Currency Stock Out The order becomes due when a currency stockout occurs. The order is due if the&nbsp;delay amount&nbsp;is zero. Unit Stock Out The order is due when a unit stockout occurs, indicating that the quantity of items has reached a critical level. The order is due if the&nbsp;Unit Delay&nbsp;is zero. Currency/Unit Stock Out The order is due when either a currency or unit stockout occurs. The order becomes due if either the&nbsp;delay amount&nbsp;or the&nbsp;Unit Delay&nbsp;is zero. Schedule with SOQ The order is due based on a predefined schedule. It becomes due if the total order quantity exceeds zero units. Schedule with or without SOQ The order is due based on a predefined schedule. It doesn't look for the order quantity. Delay is Zero The&nbsp;delay&nbsp;in days is how long you can wait to order, while maintaining the level of service for the item location. At the Item Location&nbsp;level, there is one delay. SCP calculates the currency and unit delays at the order level by aggregating item location delays and weighting them separately by dollar and unit demand. The Delay is Zero service exception shows you relationships that you need to order based on the Order Due policy setting.&nbsp; The Supply Chain Planning shows a relationship in the Delay is Zero list because it meets the parameters defined in the following table. Order Due Based On Dollar Delay &nbsp; 1 (Currency) Non-Zero Dollar and 0 Unit Delay is Zero 2 (Unit) 0 Currency and Non-Zero Unit Delay is Zero 3 (Schedule) 0 Currency or 0 Units, and it is not a scheduled order day Delay is Zero Before you process the order, consider the following: If the scheduled order date is soon, you might choose to wait before you order the relationship. If the items with the Delay is Zero Service exception are high-service level items, you might want to order the relationship now. You process an order on the Zero Delay Orders screen the same way as you process a due order. Configuration How to set up Order Due at Sourcing Relationship? {{url}}/itemlocation/api/itemlocation/sourcingRelationship/save { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"SourceLocationId":&nbsp;"",{{DCLocId1}} &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"LocationId":&nbsp;"",{{StoreLocId1}} &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"DefaultTransitTime":&nbsp;"7.0", &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"OrderCycle":&nbsp;"7", &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"RelationType": { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"RelationTypeId":&nbsp;"Regular" &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; }, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"ReviewFrequencyValue":&nbsp;1, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"ReviewFrequencyType":&nbsp;"DAY", &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"IsSundayReview":&nbsp;true, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"IsMondayReview":&nbsp;true, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"IsTuesdayReview":&nbsp;true, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"IsWednesdayReview":&nbsp;true, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"IsThursdayReview":&nbsp;true, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"IsFridayReview":&nbsp;true, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"IsSaturdayReview":&nbsp;true, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; "OrderDueMethod":"SCHEDULE WITH SOQs", } &nbsp; How to set up Order Due at Order Group? {{url}}/itemlocation/api/itemlocation/orderGroup/save { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"Description":&nbsp;"Westcoast_1", &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"ReviewFrequencyValue":&nbsp;1, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"OverrideReviewDate":&nbsp;null, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"AverageReviewCycle":&nbsp;0, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"ReviewFrequencyType": { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"ReviewFrequencyTypeId":&nbsp;"DAY" &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; }, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"OrderDueMethod": { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"OrderDueMethodId":&nbsp;"SCHEDULE WITH SOQs" &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; }, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"IsSaturdayReview":&nbsp;true, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"OrderGroupBracket": [ &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"BracketId":&nbsp;"SampleBracketID", &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"Description":&nbsp;"Default Description", &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"ActiveBracket":&nbsp;false, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"BuildToMax":&nbsp;false, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"ConstraintMin1":&nbsp;400, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"ConstraintMax1":&nbsp;1000, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"ConstraintUom1": { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"UomId":&nbsp;"EACH" &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; } &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; } &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; ], &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"JointReplenishment":&nbsp;false, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"IsMondayReview":&nbsp;true, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"IsSundayReview":&nbsp;true, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"IsWednesdayReview":&nbsp;true, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"IsTuesdayReview":&nbsp;true, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"IsFridayReview":&nbsp;true, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"OrderGroupId":&nbsp;"OG1", &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"IsThursdayReview":&nbsp;true, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"SourcingRelationships": [ &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"SourcingRelationshipId":&nbsp;null, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"LocationId":&nbsp;"StoreId_51", &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"SourceLocationId":&nbsp;"WC_DC_51", &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"RelationType": { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"RelationTypeId":&nbsp;"Regular" &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; } &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Implementation Flavors NA UIs and Entities NA &nbsp; Services The&nbsp;APIs listed in the following table are referenced in this document. Refer to the API documentation for additional details on&nbsp;each service. Service Component Group Service Endpoint Order Due at Sourcing Relationship Item Location &nbsp; {{url}}/itemlocation/api/itemlocation/sourcingRelationship/save Order Due at Order Group Item Location &nbsp; {{url}}/itemlocation/api/itemlocation/orderGroup/save &nbsp; Troubleshooting n/a &nbsp; Related Articles Order BuildNotesAutomatically Release OrdersOrder Refresh ProcessOrder Review and ApprovalOrder SplitPO/ASN ETA based Order ProjectionsChange SupplierOrder ProjectionsSub GroupsOrder Exceptions &nbsp;