# Order Subscription Dashboard

**Permalink:** ordersubscriptiondashboard
**Content Length:** 13,351 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:34:19.702211

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Processing ››Order Subscription Dashboard Order Subscription Dashboard OverviewAt risk&nbsp;OverageOrder Subscription Dashboard ConfigurationDashboard PropertiesExpected Annual SubscriptionExpected Monthly SubscriptionServices Overview The Order Subscription Dashboard provides visibility into how the customer&#39;s current and planned order counts coincide with their subscription level across all organizations. The Order Subscription Dashboard is enabled by default for all the environments and can be accessed if a relevant&nbsp;grant is associated with the user. Orders are counted when they meet the following conditions: The dashboard displays the following information for the subscription period: Subscription level:&nbsp;The number of orders allowed in the current subscription. Actual order count: Displays cumulative daily&nbsp;order count&nbsp;actual from the date of subscription until a day prior to the current day.&nbsp; A daily scheduler&nbsp;calculates the order count.&nbsp; Note: Manual updates to the actual order count entity are restricted;&nbsp;only a daily scheduler is authorized to calculate and update the order count. &nbsp;Condition Mapping Confirmed orders which have at least one sale order line*&nbsp;and were created in Manhattan Active Omni * This includes exchange orders (even and uneven) Order.isConfirmed = true and Order.OrderLineCount &gt; 0 Imported, confirmed orders which have at least one sale order line and&nbsp;are fulfilled in Manhattan Active Omni Order.isImport = true&nbsp;and Order.isConfirmed = true and Order.OrderLineCount &gt; 0 and Order.MaxFulfillmentStatusId &lt;&nbsp;7000 Gift card items, including gift card refunds For example, if a pure return is created against an order paid in cash or gift card, and a new gift card is issued to refund the customer. This order is counted because the gift card refund is processed&nbsp;as a sale order line. Gift cards refunds are created as a sale order line item and increase the Order.OrderLineCount Cancelled, confirmed orders Order.isConfirmed = true and Order.isCancelled = true Orders are not counted when they meet the following conditions: Condition Mapping Imported orders which were already fulfilled Order.isImport = true&nbsp;and Order.isConfirmed = true and Order.MaxFulfillmentStatusId &gt;= 7000&nbsp; Pure return orders&nbsp;with no exchange items Order.ReturnLineCount &gt; 0 and Order.OrderLineCount = 0 Abandoned carts or canceled, unconfirmed orders Order.isConfirmed = false Projected count:&nbsp;Displays the&nbsp;projected order count on the last day of the subscription cycle. The projected order count&nbsp;for a subscription period is calculated as follows: (Actual order count till date + Expected order count prorated for the current month + Expected order count for the rest of the months) Expected count: The expected or planned&nbsp;order count is defined for each year and month until the end of the subscription period and provided by the customer. It&nbsp;can be defined via UI &quot;Manage Subscription Data&quot;&nbsp;or API, and can be updated as many times as desired if the forecast changes. At risk&nbsp; If the order count is projected to&nbsp;reach 90% of the subscription level by the end of the subscription period,&nbsp;a&nbsp;warning message is displayed indicating that the customer is at risk of exceeding the current subscription level. Overage If the order count is projected to exceed the subscription level by the end of the subscription period, the estimated overage cost is displayed. The overage cost is calculated by&nbsp;multiplying the overage rate defined for&nbsp;the subscription by the projected number of overage orders. The overage cost is displayed in the currency specified&nbsp;in the subscription by the customer. Order Subscription Dashboard Configuration To enable the&nbsp;order subscription dashboard, complete the configuration below. The user should have the required grants to configure the data setup. Refer&nbsp;here for details. Dashboard Properties Work with services to change the default&nbsp;dashboard properties mentioned below to run at a different time. Attribute Description Format dashboard.orderCount.schedule.cron.expression The frequency of scheduled job which counts eligible orders processed in the system and makes an entry into the Actual Count table. The default frequency is daily. 0 0 1 1/1 * ? Expected Annual Subscription Use&nbsp;Manage Subscription Data user interface to configure the expected count for each year for your business. Data entered is at the merchant&#39;s discretion, any annual subscription created or updated will be equally distributed for all months. However, users can override monthly subscriptions individually. Attribute Description Example Value Month Numeric identifier of month (1-12, where 1 is January, 2 is February, ... and 12 is December) 1 Year Year 2023 Annual Subscription Expected count of point of sale transactions and orders (web orders, contact center orders, etc.) for the year. 120000 Expected Monthly Subscription Use Manage Subscription Data user interface to configure the monthly subscription for each month for your business.&nbsp;This is used to plot the expected volumes in the Order Subscription UI, so users can compare them with the actual volumes. These values&nbsp;should serve&nbsp;as a guide for determining the current status within a yearly contract. Data entered is at the merchant&#39;s discretion&nbsp;and could be as simple as yearlyContract/12 = monthlyStoreCount or an advanced calculation based off historical evidence. However, the updated individual month subscription value cannot exceed the annual subscription value. Attribute Description Example Value Month Numeric identifier of month (1-12, where 1 is January, 2 is February, ... and 12 is December) 1 Year Year 2023 Monthly Value Expected count of point of sale transactions for the month. This projected count gets plotted against the actual count of point of sale transaction for each month. 10000 &nbsp; Note: To access the Manage Subscription Data UI, a relevant grant should be added to the user. Refer here for the grant details. Services The&nbsp;APIs listed below&nbsp;are referenced in this document. Refer to API documentation for additional details on&nbsp;each service. Service Component Group End Point Subscription level Order Order Services /order/api/order/dashboard/properties Cumulative actual order count by day Order Order Services /order/api/order/actualOrderCount/countByDate Expected order count&nbsp;by year Order Order Services /order/api/order/expectedYearlyOrderSubscription/save Expected order count&nbsp;by month Order Order Services /order/api/order/expectedMonthlyOrderSubscription/save &nbsp;