# Order Fulfillment 

**Permalink:** order-fulfillment-configuration-2
**Content Length:** 18,674 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:34:45.684619

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Processing ››Order Fulfillment Order Fulfillment Configuration The following configuration is required for Order fulfillment Order Fulfillment ConfigurationOrder Prioritization ExtensibilityPrioritization Rule Template ConfigurationDemand type and Reallocate on shortRelease ConfigurationDemand Type&nbsp;Grouping LogicFulfillment Location Configuration Order Prioritization Extensibility The Prioritization Attribute user interface provides order prioritization extensibility to the existing priority rule framework.&nbsp;It enables the customers to add custom&nbsp;attribute or additional base attribute as part of prioritization rule. The extended or base attribute of type date and numeric&nbsp;can be included for the following entities: Order Order line Order promising Information Order line promising Information The attributes added to prioritization attributes can be selected&nbsp;while configuring the prioritization rule template for calculating the effective rank of the order lines. To configure order prioritization extensibility, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu &gt; Application Configuration &gt; Manage Enterprise Fulfillment Configuration &gt; Prioritization Attribute. In the Prioritization Attribute page, to add a new prioritization attribute, click Add. Enter the attribute ID, name, and the path of the attribute with reference to order line. Click Save to save the new prioritization attribute.&nbsp; To view the details of an existing prioritization attribute, in the Prioritization Attribute page, select an attribute and click View. Note: The attribute being added will be saved only if the attribute path entered is correct and the attribute at the path is of data type Date or Numeric. Prioritization Rule Template Configuration Prioritization rule defines the criterion used in prioritizing the fulfillment of order lines in the system. Fulfillment prioritization configuration enables you to create prioritization templates. Refer to Prioritization&nbsp;for details. To configure&nbsp;the prioritization rule&nbsp;template, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu&nbsp;&gt; Application Configuration&nbsp;&gt; Manage Enterprise Fulfillment Configuration &gt; Fulfillment&nbsp;Prioritization Configuration. In the Prioritization Rule Template pane, select the existing prioritization rule template to view and edit the details of the template. To add a new template, click Add New Config. Enter the name, rank, starting date, ending date, and description&nbsp;for the configuration, and then click Save. To create a rule condition that defines the eligibility criteria for order lines, click Add New Criteria in the Rule Condition section. Enter the name for the selection criteria. Click the Select Available Attributes drop-down list. In the Available Attributes pop-up window, select the entity and their attributes, and then click Save. You can also edit and delete the existing rule conditions by clicking the respective and &nbsp;icons against each rule condition. To add a prioritization rule, click Add Rule() in the Prioritization Rules section. Select the option from the priority drop-down list. Note: Only six&nbsp;attributes can be added. Specify priority rule for sorting by selecting either the Ascending or Descending option. Note:&nbsp;If you select the&nbsp;ascending option, the priority rule is stamped just as they are on the order line. &nbsp;If you select the&nbsp;descending option, the field value is subtracted from the max field value to calculate the appended value.&nbsp; To delete the priority rule, click the icon against the priority rule. Click Save to save the prioritization rule template. Demand type and Reallocate on short Order configuration enables you to handle back orders based on the configuration of the &ldquo;Reallocate on Short&rdquo; field. It also allows you to configure the&nbsp;demand type attribute, which controls the supply types that are eligible for allocation. Refer to Reallocate on Short for details. To configure Demand Type and Reallocate on Short, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu&nbsp;&gt; Application Configuration&nbsp;&gt; Manage Order Configuration &gt; Order Configuration. Select the&nbsp;required configuration from the left panel, and click the General tab. In the Allocation section, select the&nbsp;Reallocate on Short check box. Select the demand type from the Demand Type drop-down list. Release Configuration When an order is allocated and is ready for release, the release template is used to determine how the allocated order is released.&nbsp;Refer to Release Grouping and Creation&nbsp;for details. To configure the release configuration template, perform the following steps: Navigate to&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt; Application Configuration&nbsp;&gt; Manage Enterprise Fulfillment Configuration &gt;&nbsp;Release Configuration. In the Release Config Template pane, select the existing release configuration template to view and edit the details of the template. To add a new template, click&nbsp;Add New Config. Enter a name and assign a rank for the configuration. Specify the start and end dates during which this configuration will be in effect. Click Save to create a release configuration. To create a release rule condition that defines the eligibility criteria for the allocated order to be released, click Add New Criteria in the Add Rule section. Enter the name for the selection criteria. Click the Select Available Attributes drop-down list. In the Available Attributes pop-up window, select the entity and their attributes, and then click Save. You can also edit and delete the existing release rule condition by clicking the respective and &nbsp;icons against the release rule. In the Release Rules section, select the demand type and group allocation. Click Save. Note: When multiple rules with selection criteria are defined on a single release configuration template, the&nbsp;rules work on AND condition, which means, the orderline must meet the conditions of all rules on the template to release the order. Demand Type&nbsp; Release Configuration is used to configure the demand type attribute to control the supply types that are eligible for release. Refer to Release Grouping and Creation&nbsp;for details. To configure the&nbsp;demand type, perform the following steps: Navigate to&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt; Application Configuration&nbsp;&gt; Manage Enterprise Fulfillment Configuration &gt;&nbsp;Release Configuration. Select the required configuration. In the Release Rules section, select&nbsp;a demand type from the drop-down list. Click Save. Grouping Logic Group by configuration enables you to group allocations within the&nbsp;order. Refer to Release Grouping and Creation&nbsp;for details. To set up&nbsp;group by configuration, perform the following steps: Navigate to&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt; Application Configuration&nbsp;&gt; Manage Enterprise Fulfillment Configuration &gt;&nbsp;Release Configuration. Select the required configuration. In&nbsp;the Release Rules section, following configuration options are available to&nbsp;group the allocations: Hold the release until all the units are allocated for the -&nbsp;select order from the drop-down&nbsp;to prevent releasing orders which have backordered or open units. Hold the release until the units allocated across all locations are eligible -&nbsp;select By Fulfillment Group&nbsp;from the drop-down&nbsp;to&nbsp;prevent the release until all the units are allocated against the eligible supply types. Hold the release until all the units are eligible for the final shipment -&nbsp;select this check box to prevent the release of all units that could be delivered in one shipment. Click Save. Fulfillment Location Configuration The main attributes to configure fulfillment locations are Location ID, Location Type, Release Destination and Outbound Release Template. Refer to the configuration guide for details. To configure fulfillment location, perform the following steps: Navigate to&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt; Application Configuration&nbsp;&gt; Manage Order Configuration &gt; Fulfillment Location Configuration. Select the required configuration and click View. Set the&nbsp;LocationID and LocationTypeID. Enter&nbsp;the ReleaseDestinationID and the release template&nbsp;name. Click Save. &nbsp;