# Order Promising

**Permalink:** order-promising-configuration
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Order Management/UI Help/Order Processing/Order Promising
**Content Length:** 42,477 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:59:57.265226

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Order Management››UI Help››Order Processing ››Order Promising Order Promising Configuration The following configuration is required for order promising Order Promising ConfigurationMaster Data ConfigurationsShipping RatePromising StrategySource SelectionPrioritizeOptimizeSubstitutionReturn Routing OptimizationInventory Location - Service LevelsInventory Location GroupHandling CostSelling Price DifferentialInventory LevelItem VelocityEnable Continuous AllocationAttempt to Select Preferred Location Sort AttributeContinuous Allocation Location GroupHold Inventory Only For BackordersConfigure Deallocation Grace Period Accept ReturnLock Allocations Before ReleaseIgnore Receipt Time During Merge Receiving DelayDefault view for BOPIS (Buy Online Pick Up In Store) line in Promising Enable Shipping Restrictions Evaluation for PromisingEnable promising and ATP(Delivery Dates calculation in Product and Cart ATP) for the out-of-stock items Master Data Configurations The following master data entities pertain to the order promising functionality. Regions: Based on the geographical areas, you can configure region schemas and region lookup. Refer to Regions for details. Region schema definitions: The region schema is defined for logical grouping of regions. Refer to Region Schema for details. Region schema lookup: The region lookup finds the matching schema for a country code. Refer to Region Lookup for details. Transit lane: A transit lane is an association of a carrier, a service level, an origin region and a destination region Zones: A carrier zone defines a group of transit lane sharing the same transit time for the order shipment to travel. Refer to Carrier Zones for details. Shipping rates: Shipping rates are defined for a zone and a weight range. Refer to Shipping Rates for details. Shipping Rate Carrier Shipping Rates enable you to define shipping rates for a zone and a weight range. To configure shipping rate, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Master Data > Manage Carriers > Carrier Shipping Rates. Click Add. Enter Shipping Rate ID, Carrier Code, Service Level, Zone, From Weight, To Weight, Weight UOM, Currency UOM, and Rate. Click Save. Promising Strategy A promising strategy is a set of rules which define how to allocate an order. Fulfillment Optimization enables you to configure a promising strategy. Refer to the Order Promising Guide for details. Note: Fulfillment Optimization has certain features that requires special grants to perform the desired function. The omnifacade::order::allocationconfig::admin grant associated with Fulfillment Optimization provides the user read, edit and delete the configurations. This page does not offer a read-only permission option. To configure promising strategy, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Enterprise Fulfillment Configuration > Fulfillment Optimization. In the Fulfillment Optimization Strategy pane, select the existing fulfillment optimization strategy to view and edit the details of the strategy. To add a new strategy, click Add New Strategy. Enter a name and assign a rank for the strategy. Specify the start and end dates during which this strategy will be in effect. Enter description for the strategy and click Save. The following tabs are available: Source: Select inventory source locations based on order attributes or line-level overrides. Prioritize(Optional): Optional prioritization of source locations for allocation. Optimize: Optimize specific costs for allocation optimization. Source Selection Source selection enables you to source the promising requests received. Refer to the Source section for details. To select potential locations based on order attributes or line-level overrides, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Enterprise Fulfillment Configuration > Fulfillment Optimization. In the Fulfillment Optimization Strategy pane, select a strategy. In the Source tab, you can enter the order selection criteria. To add a new criterion, click Add New Criteria. Enter the name for the selection criteria. Click the Select Available Attributes drop-down. In the Available Attributes pop-up window, select the entity and their attributes, and click Save. You can also edit and delete the existing criteria by clicking the respective  and  icon against the criteria. In the Select Inventory Source section, select the inventory source by selecting either the ATC Views or the Distribution Centers option. You can select the preferred location for allocation from the Preferred Location Ranking drop-down. Note that you will be able to view the Preferred Location Ranking drop-down only if the Attempt to select a preferred location check box is selected on the Continuous Allocation Configuration UI. The Overrides section enables capacity check during allocation. Select an override from the following options: None: Default selection, which indicates that no capacity override (Ignore Capacity or Consider Capacity) is set. Ignore Capacity: Enables locations which are running at full capacity (and excluded in the ATC view) to be considered for allocation. Consider Capacity: Enables locations which are running at full capacity to be excluded for allocation. Ignore Protection allows you to ignore protected quantities at a location while considering the inventory value at the location for allocation. To add order line criteria, click Add Order Line Criteria. Enter Line Level Override Name and click OK to display the record in the Line Level Overrides section in the Source tab. Click the icon against the order line criteria to edit the criteria. To add a new criterion, click Add New Criteria and follow steps 4 and 5. Note that the Store Profile Type Id attribute is not supported while selecting the order line entity to filter. Click Delete to delete the Line Level Overrides. Prioritize To define prioritize rules, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Enterprise Fulfillment Configuration > Fulfillment Optimization. In the Fulfillment Optimization Strategy pane, select a strategy. In the Prioritize tab, click Add New Priority Tier to define priority rules for the location groups. Refer to Inventory Location Group to set up location groups. Select the location groups, segments, and override view. Note that the locations corresponding to the selected location group are considered as the highest priority locations for allocation. Click Save. Optimize To optimize specific costs associated with promising, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Enterprise Fulfillment Configuration > Fulfillment Optimization. In the Fulfillment Optimization Strategy pane, select a strategy. In the Optimize tab, select the costs associated with promising to be optimized for allocation, such as Shipping Cost, Handling Cost, Location Proximity, and so on. Note that the Location Proximity is the same as Shipping Proximity and Handling Cost same as Labor Cost. Click Add New Optimization Level to add another level of optimization. Select the costs associated with the promising to be optimized, and then click Save. Substitution Substitution gives the ability for the system to allocate an alternative item from the originally ordered item if a rule is configured. To configure substitution rule, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Enterprise Fulfillment Configuration > Fulfillment Optimization. In the Fulfillment Optimization Strategy pane, select the existing fulfillment optimization strategy to view and edit the details of the strategy. To add a new strategy, click Add New Strategy. Enter a name and assign a rank for the strategy. Specify the start and end dates during which this strategy will be in effect. Enter a description for the strategy. Select the Evaluate Substitution Rules check box to allocate an alternative item from the originally ordered item if a rule is configured and click Save. Return Routing Optimization Return routing optimization provides you the ability to dynamically determine the optimal location for returns. Refer How Promising Works for more details. To configure return center optimization, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Enterprise Fulfillment Configuration > Fulfillment Optimization. In the Fulfillment Optimization Strategy pane, select the existing fulfillment optimization strategy to view and edit the details of the strategy. To add a new strategy, click Add New Strategy. Enter a name and assign a rank for the strategy. Specify the start and end dates during which this strategy will be in effect. Enter a description for the strategy. Select the Return Routing Optimization check box to dynamically determine the optimal return center based on the user defined filters and optimization factors. The configured default return center is chosen if the template is unable to match an optimized location based on filter criteria. Note: • If “Return Routing Optimization” is enabled, Reapportion Inventory and Evaluate Substitution Rules should not be selected. • The Return Routing Optimization is disabled on the UI for an existing forward Promising Strategy to prevent users from accidentally changing an existing configuration to a return configuration. Inventory Location - Service Levels This configuration allows users to define the list of eligible service levels for a location. Refer to Delivery Dates Services for more details. To configure this: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Inventory Configuration > Inventory Location. On the Inventory Locations page, click Add or select the required configured location and click View. In the Location Service Level tab, click Add. In the Location Service Level dialog box, enter the following and click on Save. Location Service Level Id - Business key for the service level Service Level Code - The service level supported for that location. Add all the service levels supported by that location by following the above steps 3 and 4. Inventory Location Group To configure inventory location group, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Inventory Configuration > Inventory Location Group. On the Inventory Location Group page, to view the details of an existing inventory location group, select the location group and click View. To add a new inventory location group, click Add. Enter the ID and name of the location group. In the Location Group Detail tab, click Add to add the locations displayed in the drop-down. Click Save. Note: If you log in to the grandparent organization (which has access to parent and multiple child organizations), and then switch to grand child and try to add location in the Location Group UI, you will not be able to view/add locations. However, If you wish to add locations for the grand child organization through Location Group UI, you need to log into grand child organization. Handling Cost Inventory Location enables you to configure the cost to handle an order in a location. Refer to How Optimization Works Guide for details. To configure handling cost, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Inventory Configuration > Inventory Location. On the Inventory Location page, to view the details of an existing inventory location, select the location and click View. To add a new inventory location, click Add. In the Details tab, enter the Labor Cost and Labor Cost UOM, and the other necessary details. Note that the Labor Cost is the same as the Handling Cost displayed in the optimization list of the Fulfillment Optimization Configuration. Click Save. Selling Price Differential You can maintain selling price margin using inventory location. Refer to How Optimization Works Guide for details. To maintain the selling price margin, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Inventory Configuration > Item Location Configuration. On the Item Location Configs page, to view the details of an existing item location configuration, select the item location configuration and click View. To add an additional item location configuration, click Add. Enter the Price Margin and the other necessary details. Click Save. Inventory Level Item location configuration enables you to configure the inventory level optimization factor. Refer to How Optimization Works Guide for details. To configure the inventory level optimization factor, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Inventory Configuration > Item Location Configuration. On the Item Location Configs page, to view the details of an existing item location configuration, select the item location configuration and click View. To add an additional item location configuration, click Add. Enter the Days of Supply Multiplier and other necessary details. Click Save. Item Velocity The item velocity configuration allows the system to internally calculate the days of supply multiplier on a daily basis, prioritizing locations with deeper inventory. The days of supply multiplier represent the number of days required to sell one unit of inventory in the store. Refer to How Optimization Works for details. Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Enterprise Fulfillment Configuration > Fulfillment Optimization. In the Fulfillment Optimization Strategy pane, select a strategy. In the Optimize tab, select the Item Velocity check box to configure the days of supply multiplier internally. Click Save. Enable Continuous Allocation The Continuous Allocation Configuration enables you to continuously evaluate fulfillment optimization in real time using Continuous Allocation. Refer to Continuous Allocation for more information. To configure continuous allocation, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Inventory Configuration > Continuous Allocation Configuration. On the Continuous Allocation Configuration page, select the existing continuous allocation configuration to view and edit the details. To add a new configuration, click Create. Enter the Continuous Allocation Config ID. Select the Enable Continuous Allocation check box to allow continuous allocation. Enter the organizations participating in continuous allocation and click Save. Attempt to Select Preferred Location This feature enables you to attempt continuous allocation within a location group that is selected in the fulfillment optimization rule. Refer to Continuous Allocation Within Location Group for more details. To configure continuous allocation across locations within a location group, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Inventory Configuration > Continuous Allocation Configuration. On the Continuous Allocation Configuration page, select the existing continuous allocation configuration to view and edit the details. To add a new configuration, click Create. Enter the Continuous Allocation Config ID. Select the Enable Continuous Allocation check box to allow continuous allocation. Select the Attempt to select a preferred location check box to attempt continuous allocation within a location group. Click Save. Sort Attribute Sort Attribute allows you to choose whether the reshuffle in the location group(selected in the  fulfillment optimization rule) will happen based on location rank or with the best supply type. To configure continuous allocation sort attribute across locations within a location group, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Inventory Configuration > Continuous Allocation Configuration. On the Continuous Allocation Configuration page, select the existing continuous allocation configuration to view and edit the details. To add a new configuration, click Create. Enter the Continuous Allocation Config ID. Select the Enable Continuous Allocation check box to allow continuous allocation. Select the Attempt to select a preferred location check box to attempt continuous allocation within a location group. Select the Sort Attribute from the drop-down (Location rank/Supply Type) based on which reshuffle needs to happen. Click Save. Continuous Allocation Location Group Continuous Allocation Location Group provides you the ability to add locations and their ranking to a location group. Any inventory allocated from these locations to low priority orders and not released can be taken by the higher priority orders when continuous allocation runs. Refer to Continuous Allocation Within Location Group for more details. To configure continuous allocation location group, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Inventory Configuration > Continuous Allocation Location Group. To create a new location group On the Continuous Allocation Location Group page, click Create. On the Continuous Allocation Location Group Details page, enter the details of the location group such as the Location Group ID and Location Group Name and click Save to save the header level details. Click + in the Continuous Allocation Location Group Details section and click Add. In the Add pop-up window, select the locations from the Location ID drop-down and enter the rank for the location and click Submit. Follow steps 4 and 5 to add locations and their ranking. Note: The location group ranking can be unique, null or duplicate. If the ranking is null, then it is considered as the lowest rank in the location group.  If any two or more locations have the same rank, the locations are sorted based on alphabetic order. To edit the existing location group On the Continuous Allocation Location Group list page, select the location group and click Edit. On the Continuous Allocation Location Group page, update the location group name, if required, and click Save. Alternatively, click Cancel to exit without updating the location group. In the Continuous Allocation Location Group Detail section, you can perform the following actions: Click Add to add a location and its ranking. Select an existing location and click Edit to update the ranking. Select an existing location and click Delete to delete the ranking. Hold Inventory Only For Backorders This attribute is used to hold inventory only for backorders at the item location level and to release any remaining inventory immediately during the supply event. When thsi feature is enabled, for a given order Item A at DC1, if 10 units have been backordered, and when the PO of Item A is received at DC1 for 100 units, it will block only 10 units and will show 90 units as the available quantity. If this feature is not enabled, the complete 100 units will be blocked. Refer here for more details. To configure this feature, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Inventory Configuration > Continuous Allocation Configuration. On the Continuous Allocation Configuration page, select the existing continuous allocation configuration to view and edit the details. To add a new configuration, click Create. Enter the Continuous Allocation Config ID. Select the "Hold Inventory Only For Backorders" check box. Click Save. Configure Deallocation Grace Period This feature enables you to stop deallocation of orders before the release during the continuous allocation process due to scheduling constraints. Refer Continuous Allocation for more details. To configure the deallocation grace period, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Inventory Configuration > Continuous Allocation Configuration. On the Continuous Allocation Configuration page, select the existing continuous allocation configuration to view and edit the details. To add a new configuration, click Create. Enter the Continuous Allocation Config ID. Enter the Deallocation Grace Period in min. The system will wait for an additional period that is configured here before deallocating any allocation when the Latest Release Date(LRD) is less than the current date and time. Accept Return Inventory Location enables you to configure locations to participate in return center determination. Refer How Promising Works for more details To configure location to accept returns, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Inventory Configuration > Inventory Location. On the Inventory Location page, to view the details of an existing inventory location, select the location and click View. To add a new inventory location, click Add. In the Details tab, select the Accept Returns check box to allow the selected location to accept returns. Lock Allocations Before Release This feature enables you to configure the number of hours before the release date (Latest Release Date) for order allocation to be locked and not be eligible for higher priority orders. To lock allocations before release, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Inventory Configuration > Continuous Allocation Configuration. On the Continuous Allocation Configuration page, select the existing continuous allocation configuration to view and edit the details. To add a new configuration, click Create. Enter the Continuous Allocation Config ID. Enter the Hours Before Release To Lock Allocations. The system will lock order allocation for the configured number of hours before the latest release date (LRD) Ignore Receipt Time During Merge When orders are merged/cross-docked, this feature ensures ‘Location Receipt Time’ is applied only to the first location the inventory is received at and not to the subsequent locations. To configure ignore receipt time for merge legs, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Inventory Configuration > Inventory Location. Click Add or select the required configured inventory location and click View. In the Details tab, select the Ignore Receipt Processing Time During Merge check box. Note that the default value is null. Receiving Delay This receiving delay feature enables you to hide onhand inventory for a certain amount of time after receiving the inventory at the store. The Inventory Location UI provides you with the ability to set this time in hours. To configure receiving delay in hours, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Inventory Configuration > Inventory Location. Click Add or select the required configured inventory location and click View. In the Details tab, set the value in hours for receiving delay. For example, if the receiving delay in hours is set at 72 hrs, the inventory will be available online only after this configured time of 72 hours after receiving the inventory at the store. Default view for BOPIS (Buy Online Pick Up In Store) line in Promising To configure Default view for BOPIS, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Enterprise Fulfillment Configuration > Fulfillment Optimization. In the Fulfillment Optimization Strategy pane, select the existing fulfillment optimization strategy to view and edit the details of the strategy. To add a new strategy, click Add New Strategy. Enter a name and assign a rank for the strategy. Specify the start and end dates during which this strategy will be in effect. Enter a description for the strategy. Select the "ATC View" from the drop-down under Default BOPIS view configuration section, and then click Save. Enable Shipping Restrictions Evaluation for Promising To enable the shipping restrictions evaluation for promising follow the below steps : Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Enterprise Fulfillment Configuration > Fulfillment Optimization. In the Fulfillment Optimization Strategy pane, select the Fulfillment Optimization for which Shipping Restrictions need to be evaluated and click edit. Select "Evaluate Shipping Restrictions" to enable evaluation during product/cart ATP. Enable promising and ATP(Delivery Dates calculation in Product and Cart ATP) for the out-of-stock items To enable the promising and ATP for unavailable inventory, follow the steps below : Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Enterprise Fulfillment Configuration > Fulfillment Optimization. In the Fulfillment Optimization Strategy pane, select the Fulfillment Optimization for which the feature needs to be evaluated and click on edit. Select "Promise And Procure Based On Vendor Lead Time" to enable delivery dates calculation during promising and ATP calls.