# Order Management Dashboard

**Permalink:** order-management-dashboard
**Content Length:** 15,388 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:36:46.323810

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Supply Chain Intelligence&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Supply Chain Intelligence - Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Dashboards ››Order Management Dashboard Order Management Dashboard Filtering DataMetricsVisualizations The Order Management dashboard includes metrics and interactive visualizations that provide insights into item sales based on product class and season, average discount amounts given by sales channel, dollar value sold by time of day and sales channel, and other meaningful barometers of order movement.&nbsp;It can help you to: Track key order metrics and identify trends. Identify areas for improvement in your order processing workflow. Make better decisions about inventory levels and product pricing. Provide better customer service by providing real-time information on order status. The interactive nature of the dashboard and its default filters ensure appropriate investigation of the data to obtain actionable insights and a better understanding of their order management operations. You can access this dashboard&nbsp;in IBM Cognos by navigating to&nbsp;Team Content &gt; SCI Packaged Content &gt; Packaged Dashboards &gt; OMNI &gt; Order Management Dashboard &nbsp; Filtering Data The following table summarizes the filters available for the Order Management dashboard: Filter Name Description Time You can select any of the following time spans: Today, Yesterday, Last 7 Days, Last 14 Days, Last 30 Days. This is based on the Order Created Date, from the Order Query Subject. By default, the &lsquo;Last 30 Days&rsquo; is selected. You must provide a value in the date filter, or the dashboard may return inaccurate results. Season You can select the season associated with the Order Line sold. This is based on the Order Line Item Season&nbsp;on the Order Line Query Subject. Store The user can select the store associated with the order. This is based on the Selling Location on the Order Query Subject. To view orders not associated with stores, the user will choose the &lsquo;NA&rsquo; option. &nbsp; Note: You can select or&nbsp;unselect an item to apply or remove the filter. There is an internal filter to exclude&nbsp;the canceled records. &nbsp; Metrics The Metrics section provides the results for the dimensions filtered as the user selects different values in either visualizations and/or the filter section. The following table summarizes these metrics: Metric Name Description Calculation Order Total ($) Identifies the total dollar value of the orders. It uses the Order Total column from the Order Query Subject. SUM(Order Total) Order Sub Total ($) Identifies the sub total dollar value for the orders. It uses the Order Sub Total column on the Order Query Subject. SUM(Order Sub Total) Order Line Total ($) Obtains the total dollar value from the order line level. This metric uses the Order Line Total from the Order Line Query Subject. SUM(Order Line Total) Order Line Subtotal ($) Identifies the sub total dollar value for the order lines. It uses the Order Line Subtotal column on the Order Line Query Subject. SUM(Order Line Sub Total) Order Line Qty Indicates the total number of units for the order lines. It uses the Order Line Quantity on the Order Line Query Subject. SUM(Order Line Qty) Order Line Count This is a count of the order lines. It uses the Order Line primary key on the Order Line Query Subject COUNT(Order Line PK) &nbsp; Visualizations By default, the Order Management Dashboard includes the following visualizations: Order Count by State This heat map visualization&nbsp;identifies the number of orders processed in different cities and states. It uses font size to provide a quick visual comparison of order count across cities. Cities with larger font sizes indicate higher order numbers than cities with smaller fonts. The visualization legend identifies the states associated with the cities based on the color. Order Line SubTotal, by Product Class & Season This bubble chart depicts the dollar subtotal for order lines&nbsp;based on the product class and season of the items processed. Product class, season and the order line subtotal are from the order line query subject. All records are organized by season, and the bubbles are color coded so that you can identify the season of the product classes processed. The size of the bubbles is dependent on the dollar sub total of the product class processed; the greater the dollar value, the larger the bubble. &nbsp; Order Total By Hour This visualization identifies the dollar value processed per hour by Selling Channel. It provides feedback in military time. To accommodate the space available, the time is defined into 2 hour intervals. The columns utilized are from the Order Query Subject: Order Total, Order PK, and Order Selling Channel. Average Discount by Selling Channel This heat map provides insight into the discounts&nbsp;by Selling Channel and Product Class. It identifies the average discount&nbsp;with color saturation, indicating the greatest discount averages;&nbsp;the darker the color, the larger the discount. The discount is based on the following values from the Order Line Query Subject: Orig Unit Value for Order Line - Order Line Unit Price /&nbsp; Order Line primary key. The Product Class value is also obtained from the Order Line record; the Selling Channel is from the Order Query Subject. Today&rsquo;s Order Status Today&rsquo;s Order Status visualization identifies the count of orders that are not completed, organized by status description. Managers can monitor order progress through the system throughout the day, ensuring that orders are moving towards completion in a timely manner. It is a snapshot of records associated with the location of today: selecting a time period other than today will not change the results. The Order Status description&nbsp;and Order primary key are both from the Order Query Subject. &nbsp; &nbsp;