# Order Frequency Simulation Results - UI

**Permalink:** orderfrequncysimulationresults
**Content Length:** 5,298 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:59.427498

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Configurations ››Order Frequency Simulation Results - UI Order Frequency Simulation Results - UI &nbsp; Overview&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Overview Order Frequency Simulation Results UI lists all the&nbsp;functional parameters of a Supply Chain Planning application and allows users to update the parameters with required values.&nbsp; &nbsp; Component Attribute Description &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Order Frequency Simulation Results Inventory Optimization Order Cycle Days The order cycle days of the results. Current, Alternate and Suggested are shown.&nbsp; Net Annual Cost Annual total cost of ordering, based on the number of orders made each year. Annual Header The annual header cost of creating and receiving all POs placed, given the order cycle. Annual Line Cost Annual projected cost of ordering, receiving, and restocking each line item purchased, given the order cycle. Cycle Stock Carrying Cost Annual projected cost of carrying the average inventory, given the order cycle. Safety Stock Carrying Cost The projected annual cost of carrying the safety stock inventory is required, based on the order cycle. Freight Cost The freight cost is used to calculate the net annual cost. Annual Demand Currency The amount of annual demand for all items is expressed in currency. Average Total Cost The average total order cost is expressed in currency. Average Total Weight The average total order cost is expressed in weight. Average Total Volume The average total order cost is expressed in volume. Average Total Units The average total order cost is expressed on packaging. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Freight Costs Maximum Range The maximum weight for each weight break should be defined, with each record's minimum value continuing from the previous record's range. Freight&nbsp;Cost&nbsp;Per Unit The freight cost per unit for each weight break, which will be displayed up to four decimal places. This freight cost applies when the order weight is greater than or equal to the minimum weight and less than the maximum weight specified in this record. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;