# Order Pricing

**Permalink:** order-pricing-help
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Order Management/UI Help/Order Selling/Order Pricing
**Content Length:** 43,456 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:00:06.059054

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Order Management››UI Help››Order Selling ››Order Pricing Order Pricing Customer orders use various order pricing services to create an order. Order pricing services include item prices, applying promotions, calculating shipping and handling (S&H) charges, applying value added service (VAS) charges, and calculating taxes for an order. Pricing configurationEnabling PricingItem Price DetailsBest practices for structuring payloads when pushing price feeds into MAOHow to set up varying active prices for items with different dates and locations? Currency ConfigurationShipping and Handling (S&H) and Other Charges ConfigurationEnabling Shipping and Handling (S&H) and Other ChargesConfiguring Shipping and Handling (S&H) chargesCreating S&H charge listConfiguring shipping charge rulesConfiguring Shipping ChargesCharging S&H on First InvoiceCharging VAS with First InvoiceCharging Hazmat with First InvoiceCharging Handling with First InvoiceCharging Surcharge with First InvoiceCharging Miscellaneous Charges with First InvoiceTax ConfigurationEnabling the taxEnabling Auto Write-off Additional Taxes For Post Release Address UpdateConfigure Auto Write-Off Additional Taxes Threshold AmountConfiguring taxVertex configurationInvoice Tax Mode ConfigurationReturn Tax Mode ConfigurationTax Comparison Strategy ConfigurationValue-Added ServicesAppeasementItem Level Return FeeNextUp Configuration Pricing configuration Pricing of the product is important for creating orders. Refer to the Order Pricing Guide for details. Enabling Pricing To enable pricing, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Configuration. In the General tab, select the Price & Promotion check box. Item Price Details Note: Several prices can be configured for the same ItemId and for a specific effective date Field Name Description Notes List Id The List Id describes the groupsof item prices. If maintaining one Price List, set this to Default. If maintaining multiple Price Lists refer to the Price List Guide. REQUIRED FIELD To retrieve item price list using custom logic, a user exit can be defined. Location Id Indicates if the item price is specific to a selling location. If Location Id is not populated, then the item price is valid for all selling locations. Location specific item price records take precedence over item price records without LocationId within the same list. Item Id Reference of the Item for which the Item Price applies REQUIRED FIELD Price Id Unique Id of the Item Price Cannot be modified afterward Base Price Regular price of the item Not used for pricing The Base Price is used to derive the "sale" status of the item: if the Selling Price is less than the Base Price the item is considered 'on sale'; otherwise the Base Price is not used and may be left null. Selling Price Selling price of the item REQUIRED FIELD Currency Code Currency code of the price (e.g.: USD, EUR, …) REQUIRED FIELD Effective Start Date Date from which the price is considered during pricing REQUIRED FIELD Effective End Date Date after which the price is not considered during pricing REQUIRED FIELD End DateTime MUST be greater than the Start DateTime Behavior After End Date Indicates how the system should behave if the price is expired. If Ignore, then the system uses the not expired price. If Alert, then the system generates an outbound alert message. REQUIRED FIELD Has Alerts Indicates if the price record has alerts Rank If multiple prices applies during pricing because of start and end date, the price with the lower rank is used REQUIRED FIELD NOTE:  From a payload perspective, both Effective Start Date and Effective End Date must include both date and time values. This ensures accurate pricing behavior across systems and avoids unexpected activation or expiration of item prices. Format Example: MM/DD/YYYY, hh:mm AM/PM Example Payload: { "ListId" : "Default", "LocationId" : null, "ItemId" : "ITEM{{RandomNumber}}", "PriceId" : "ITEMP{{RandomNumber}}", "BasePrice" : "22.5", "SellingPrice" : "15.13", "CurrencyCode" : "USD", "EffectiveStartDate" : "2016-01-01T00:00", "EffectiveEndDate" : "2020-12-31T23:59", "BehaviorAfterEndDate" : "Ignore", "Rank" : 1 } Best practices for structuring payloads when pushing price feeds into MAO 1. How to set up varying active prices for items with different dates and locations? Different price values can be set up for different locations. These price values can have different effective start and end date. Location ID is used to differentiate the different price values at Item Prices. If the same price has to be maintained across different locations then the Location Id can be left blank for this set up. These prices can also be ranked. Ranking decides which price the system will pick if there are multiple price available at the same location. For Ex: Item A is set up at Store NYC. Price 1 – 10 and Rank = 1 Price 2 – 20 and Rank = 2 Price 3 – 25 and Rank = 3 In the above cases if all the price values are effective at a given time then Price 1 will be picked up by the system when an order is created as it has priority ranking. In case Price 1 is expired then the system will check for the subsequent price value based on Effective End date and then compare the Ranking. Currency Configuration The currency rounding feature enables money amounts on the order to be rounded to the nearest whole number for currencies with different rounding requirements. Currently, currency rounding configurations is supported only for Japanese Yen(JPY), Chilean Peso (CLP), Hungarian Forint (HUF), South Korean Won (KRW), and New Taiwan Dollar (TWD). For example: A charge total of 556.36 will be rounded to 556. Refer Currency Rounding for more information. Currency Configuration UI enables you to configure currency rounding in item prices, charges, discounts, taxes, and invoicing for customer and return orders. To configure currency rounding, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Currency Configuration. To create a new currency, click Create. In the Currency Configuration page, enter the Currency Code and click Save. For example, enter JPY as the currency code of the Japanese Yen and CLP as the currency code of the Chilean Peso. Select the Rounding Mode from the following option: Round Down - For the supported charge type, the amount in the order will be rounded down irrespective of the decimal value. Half Up - For supported charge types, the prorated values are rounded half-up to the nearest whole number. Anything greater than or equal to 0.5 is rounded up to the next number and anything less than 0.5 is rounded down. Note: The Round Down option is selected by default. Select the Round Down Tax Once Per Invoice check box to enable rounding down of tax records per invoice at the invoice header level and not at order or order line. Note that this is supported only for currency code JPY. To disable a currency rounding, select an existing currency configuration and click Delete. Note: All other currencies not listed above will be rounded by the base Manhattan Active® Omni system. The base rounding logic follows a half-up approach to rounding. Any decimal value in the thousandths' location >=5 will have the hundredths location value rounded up. Any thousandths' location value <5 will see the hundredths location value remain the same. The Currency Rounding Configuration cannot be applied to any other currencies. Shipping and Handling (S&H) and Other Charges Configuration The Shipping and handling (S&H) component consists of shipping methods and related charges for each item. The S&H configuration involves enabling S&H and setting the rules for calculating the charges. Refer to the Shipping and Handling guide for details. Enabling Shipping and Handling (S&H) and Other Charges To enable S&H and other charges, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu >Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Configurations. In the General tab, select the Shipping & Handling and Other Charges check box. Configuring Shipping and Handling (S&H) charges The shipping and handling configuration is a set of parameters required for a customer or return order. Creating S&H charge list To create a S&H charge list, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Selling Configuration > Shipping and Handling > Shipping and Handling Charge List. Click Add. In the Add Shipping Charge List page, enter the ID and the description of the shipping charge list. Click Save. Configuring shipping charge rules To configure shipping charge rules, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu >Application Configuration > Manage Selling Configuration  > Shipping and Handling > Shipping and Handling Charge Rules. Click Add. Enter rate basis ID and shipping charge list ID. Click Save. Configuring Shipping Charges To configure shipping charges, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu >Application Configuration > Manage Selling Configuration > Shipping and Handling > Shipping and Handling Charges. Click Add. On the Add Shipping Charge page, enter the list ID, charge rule ID and the rate basis ID. Enter the shipping method ID. Enter the start and end range, UOM code, and charge. Click Save. Charging S&H on First Invoice This configuration enables entire S&H charges for each fulfillment group to be invoiced when the first invoice is created for the order. To configure S&H charges on the first invoice, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Configuration. In the General tab, select the Shipping Charges check box in the Charge on First Invoice section. Charging VAS with First Invoice This configuration enables entire value added service charges for each fulfillment group to be invoiced when the first invoice is created for the order, irrespective of whether VAS charge is applicable for the order line and item or not. Refer to the VAS guide for details. To configure VAS charges on the first invoice, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Configuration. In the General tab, select the Value Added Service Charge check box in the Charge on First Invoice section. Charging Hazmat with First Invoice This configuration enables entire hazmat charges for each fulfillment group to be invoiced when the first invoice is created for the order, irrespective of whether a hazmat charge is applicable for the order line and item or not. Refer to the Charges guide for details. To configure hazmat charges on the first invoice, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Configuration. In the General tab, select the Hazmat charge check box in the Charge on First Invoice section. Charging Handling with First Invoice This configuration enables entire Handling charges for each fulfillment group to be invoiced when the first invoice is created for the order, irrespective of whether handling charge is applicable for the order line and item or not. Refer to the Charges guide for details. To configure handing charges on the first invoice, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Configuration. In the General tab, select the Handling Charge check box in the Charge on First Invoice section. Charging Surcharge with First Invoice This configuration enables entire surcharge charges for each fulfillment group to be invoiced when the first invoice is created for the order, irrespective of whether the surcharge charge is applicable for the order line and item or not. Refer to the Charges guide for details. To configure surcharges on the first invoice, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Configuration. In the General tab, select the Surcharge check box in the Charge on First Invoice section. Charging Miscellaneous Charges with First Invoice This configuration enables the entire amount of miscellaneous charges to be invoiced and included in the first shipment invoice generated for the order when the first item within the fulfillment group is shipped. To configure miscellaneous charges on first invoice, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Configuration. In the General tab, in the Charge on First Invoice sections, select the Miscellaneous charge check boxes as required. Tax Configuration The tax configuration is essential for the order component to calculate tax for customer transactions for a customer order, returns, exchange orders and point of sale transactions. Refer to the Tax guide for details. Enabling the tax To enable the tax, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu >Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Configurations. In the General tab, select the Tax check box. Enabling Auto Write-off Additional Taxes For Post Release Address Update This configuration helps to auto write off the additional taxes calculated due to the change of address after the order is released.  Refer to Tax guide for more details. Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Configuration. Select the configuration from the left tab, and then click the General tab. In the Automatic Write-Off section, select the Auto Write-off Additional Taxes check box. Configure Auto Write-Off Additional Taxes Threshold Amount This configuration helps to auto-write off the additional taxes calculated due to the change of address for both pre- and post-release orders.  Refer to Tax guide for more details. Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Configuration. Select the configuration from the left tab, and then click the General tab. In the Automatic Write-Off section, specify the threshold amount in Auto Write-Off Additional Taxes Threshold Amount. Note: The system allows configuring the threshold up to 1 (less than or equal to one). To override this limit, update the KV store property orderConfig.MaxAutoWriteOffAdditionalTaxThreshold. Configuring tax Vertex configuration Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Selling Configuration > Selling > Tax Gateways. On the Add Tax Gateway page, click Add. In the Detail tab, enter the ID and the description of the tax gateway. In the Tax Gateway Attribute tab, click Add. In the Tax Gateway Attribute dialog box, enter the name and value of the tax gateway attribute, and then click Save. On the Add Tax Gateway page, click Save. Invoice Tax Mode Configuration This configuration controls recalculation of tax for the invoiced items when a shipment or adjustment invoice is created. Refer to the Tax guide for details. Navigate to Menu >Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration  > Order Configuration. Select the configuration from the left tab, and then click the General tab. In the Tax section, select the Invoice Tax Mode from the drop-down. Possible values are: Quotation: Tax computed at the time of order capture Invoice: Tax computed at the time of Invoice generation Minimum: Minimum of order tax and Invoice Tax Quotation Ledger: Order tax Return Tax Mode Configuration This configuration controls recalculation of tax on the invoiced items when a return invoice is created. Refer to the Tax guide for more details on return tax mode. To configure the return tax mode, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu >Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration  > Order Configuration. Select the configuration from the left tab, and then click the General tab. In the Tax section, you can select the return tax mode as Return Order or Return Order Ledger. Tax Comparison Strategy Configuration Tax comparison strategy controls the way the system compares tax detail records for computing invoice tax.  Refer to the Tax guide for details. To configure tax comparison strategy, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu >Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration  > Order Configuration. Select the configuration from the left tab, and then click the General tab. In the Tax section, select the tax comparison strategy from the following options: Jurisdiction: This is the default option that compares tax detail records based on a business key that includes jurisdiction type and jurisdiction with other attributes.. TaxCode: Compares tax details based on a business key that includes the tax code with other attributes and excludes jurisdiction type and jurisdiction. Note: For all existing tax configurations the tax comparison strategy configuration will be assumed to be 'Jurisdiction', which is the default option – reflecting the behavior of the application prior to enabling the Tax Comparison Strategy feature, even if the value of the attribute in the backend is null. Value-Added Services Value-added services are customized and unique services, such as gift wrapping and embroidery offered to the customer. Refer to the VAS guide for details. To add value-added service types, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Master Data > Manage Items > Item Value Added Service Types. Click Add. Enter the value-added service type ID and name. Enter the tax code and description of VAS. Click Save. To add value-added service options for each value-added service type defined, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Master Data > Manage Items > Item Value Added Service. Click Add. Enter the value-added service option ID and name. Enter the description for the VAS. Select the value added service type ID from the Value Added Service Type ID drop-down list. Enter the charge amount and the currency code for the VAS. Click Save. Appeasement Appeasement are discounts that are typically applied in scenarios when a customer is not satisfied with the service provided. Refer to the Charges guide for details. To define an appeasement, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu >Application Configuration > Manage Selling Configuration > Selling > Appeasement. Click Add. Enter Appeasement ID and Appeasement Type ID. Enter description, short description, and value for the appeasement. Click Save. Item Level Return Fee The return fees can be configured at item level on the Item Price UI. Refer to How Return Works for more details. To configure return fees at item level, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Selling Configuration > Selling > Item Prices. Enter location Id or item Id to view the details of the existing item, or click add to add item details for a new item. In the Return Fee tab, click Add Select the fee name from the available options: Restocking Fee or Overweight Item Fee. Select the Fee Type from the available options: Percent Fee, Flat Fee, Per Quantity Fee. Enter the fee value and click Save. NextUp Configuration NextUp configuration feature provides the ability to set the rules for generating the next number corresponding to the counter type defined. To configure nextup generation rules, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage NextUp Configuration > Next Up Configuration. On the Next Up Configuration page, you can create a new strategy or view, edit, and delete the existing strategy. To create a new strategy, click Create New Strategy and enter the following details. Enter the Counter Type name, total length of the nextup number, counter prefix, counter suffix, starting number of the sequence, ending number for the sequence, and the number to be incremented by. Indicate if the date should be appended to the prefix and the date format to be used. Select the order of start prefix, date prefix, and nextup value for the counter that is generated. Indicate if you want to reset the sequence on the day change. This will reset the current sequence to the start sequence only when the current date is different from the last generated date. Indicate if the counter is specific to a business unit. If the counter should be reset annually, enter the date and time at which the reset should occur. Enter the scope of nextup counter as CUSTOM or ORG. Set the value as ORG if the counter has to be used across all child organizations. Set the value as CUSTOM if the counter is not dependent on organization/ Facility/ Business Unit. Based on the value set in the above step for the scope of nextup counter, enter parent organization if the counter was set as ORG. If CUSTOM, enter the unique tag to filter this counter. To edit the existing configuration, select the configuration, and click Edit. Make the necessary changes as required and click Save and Finish. To view the existing configuration, select the configuration, and click View. In the view mode, you will be able to only view the details and modify the values. To delete the existing configuration, select the configuration, and click Delete.