# Orders

**Permalink:** orders-2
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Order Management/UI Help/Orders/Orders
**Content Length:** 26,189 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:00:33.129809

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Order Management››UI Help››Orders ››Orders Orders Order/Order Line ListForce AllocateError ResetComplete Single Source Component Items in OrderOrder SummaryOrder Audit TrailOrder AuditOrder AnalysisCustomer Communications Order/Order Line List The Orders user interface enables you to view the order list and order line list created in the system. To access the Orders List/Order Line List page, navigate to Menu > Orders. The Order List tab lists all the orders created in the system. The Order Line List tab lists all the order lines associated with the orders in the system. Filter Panel: The Order List and the Order Line List tabs are provided with a Filter Panel, which enables you to filter order and order lines based on the search criteria you enter in the filter panel. For example, enter the customer's first and last name and click Apply to view the orders created for a customer. Additionally, you can configure the search filter by selecting options from the More drop-down list. Note: You can use * to perform wild card searches. If the order id contains * then the search will return multiple results. For example, if the order id is "0073*51*1051" then the query would be "OrderId~'0073' AND OrderId~'51' AND OrderId~'1051'". The Retain search criteria in the filter panel enables you to retain search criteria when switching organizations. Note: The retain search criteria in the filter panel enables you to retain search criteria when switching organizations. However, this depends on the View Order Across Organizations check box on the List UI Configuration. For the retain search filter to work across organizations, ensure that the following conditions are met. •  The View Order Across Organizations is selected for the current org as well as all the organizations that the user has access to. •  The View Order Across Organizations is NOT selected for the current org as well as all the organizations that the user has access to. The retain search filter will behave unexpectedly if View Order Across Organizations is selected/unselected (mixed configurations) for the current org as well as all the organizations that the user has access to. From the search result, select the record(s) of your choice and perform the following actions: View order status: Click View Order Status to display the Customer Transactions page. You can view the details of the order such as order status, payment details, and the shipment status for the selected order/order line. View order details: Click View Order Details to display the Order Details page. On the Order details page, you can view the order details such as order number, selling channel, fulfillment facility, Ship to location ID and so on. You can also allocate, release, cancel, and edit the order. Additionally, you can view the order lines associated with the orders, and can allocate, release, cancel, and cancel the eligible quantity. Click Order Number drop-down to see the related returns associated with the order. Edit: Click Edit to display the Customer Order page, where the details of the order/order line can be modified. Cancel: Click Cancel. In the Cancel Order/Order Line window, select a reason and enter comments for canceling the order/order line. On cancellation, the order/order line is de-allocated, and inventory is rolled back. Cancel Eligible Quantity: Click Cancel Eligible Quantity in the Order Line List tab to display the Cancel Order Line window. Select the reason and enter comments for canceling the eligible quantity in the order line, and then click Done. Allocate: Click Allocate to allocate the order/order line for further processing. Hold: Click Hold. In the Hold Order/Order Line window, select a reason code and enter comments to hold the order/order line. Unhold: Click Unhold. In the Unhold Order/Order Line window, select the Reason and enter the comments to unhold the order. When you select the Unhold By_TC option as “Remove Holds by Hold Type”, You need to select the Hold type along with the resolve reason and comments field. Release: Click Release to release the order/order line. Send order status: Click Send Order Status to send the order/order line status to the customer. Import Order: Click Import Order in the Order List tab to import bulk orders to the system through excel file upload. View Import Progress: Click View Import Progress in the Order List tab to view the status of orders created through bulk import. Allocate All: Click Allocate All to mass allocate the orders. Release All: Click Release All to release all the orders. After you select the records to perform a specific task, you can clear the selection by clicking the clear selection(X) button. Note: The Order List and Order Line List UIs do not conditionally enable/disable buttons based on mod type configuration. For example, if the mod type config restricts Cancel for status Released or greater, then the ‘Cancel’ button will not be disabled when released units are selected. Instead, the status validation is done by the back end after the button is selected. Note: If View Orders Across Organizations is enabled, you will be able to see orders belonging to different organizations, but you will not be able to perform actions like Cancel, Allocate, Hold, Unhold, Release, Send Order Status, Import Order, and View Import Progress for multiple orders at once. Refer View Orders Across Organization for more information. Order/Order Line list UI cannot be customized for rearranging the columns, removing/adding columns etc. Types of extension capabilities supported on this UI are: Extending Filters in orderlist tables Extending columns in order list tables Adding custom buttons in order list footers Force Allocate The force allocate process enables you to force allocate process enables you to allocate an order line without looking for available inventory. When a Fulfillment Facility is provided and the Force Allocate attribute is selected, then the allocation of the order line happens from the specified location. When a fulfillment facility in not defined, then the order line is fulfilled from the highest ranked sources. You can force allocate order lines which are in open, backordered or allocated statuses. When a shipped update is received from a fulfillment facility for order lines which were force allocated, the OM system reduces the available inventory by shipped quantity. If the Inventory does not exist, then a negative inventory record will be created in OM upon shipment. To enable force allocation for an order line, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Orders. The Order List page is displayed. Select the Order Line List page, and then select the check box against the order number and click View Order Details. Select the order line by clicking the corresponding hyperlink in the Order line ID column. The order details for the selected order line are displayed. Click Edit to open the order details in the edit mode. Select the Force Allocate check box and click Save to save the changes. Error Reset The Error Reset feature enables you to reset one or more inventory supply errors to make the inventory available for allocation. The Inventory Supply user interface allows you to reset the errors only for the perpetual supply and not for any specific available to commerce view. To reset errors, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Inventory Supply. The Supply page is displayed with empty locations and item IDs. By default, the Include Errored Supply is set to Yes. In the Filter Panel, enter the search criteria such as Location ID or Item ID to search for the inventory. Based on the search criteria, the inventory list is displayed. The Error? column displays the error status for each record. From the search result, select the check box against the record(s) to rectify the error and click Reset Error. If the selected record(s) does not have any error, then a message "The selected inventory supply record(s) is(are) not in error" is displayed. Complete Single Source Complete Single Source functionality enables the retailer to source all or a group of order lines from a single location. When allocation happens, it will consider the locations which can fulfill all/group of order lines. However, if a location is not available, then the allocation is not done. To view the strategy in order line, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Orders Select the order and click View Order Details. Select the order line and click the order line ID link. The Order Line ID details pop-up is displayed. View the Strategy Type field. The possible values are: CompleteSingleSource – this strategy is applied to this order line Blank – CSS is not applied to this order line Component Items in Order This functionality enables you to check if an item in an order has component items or not. Also, if the item has components, then view the individual component and its corresponding ratio. Navigate to Menu > Orders Select the order and click View Order Details. Select the order line and click the order line ID link. Order Line ID details pop-up is displayed. Under Additional Details section, view Has Components attribute. The possible values are: No – component items are not available Yes – component items are available Click Yes and view Component Items pop-up. A list of individual items and its corresponding ratio is displayed. Click OK to close the pop-up. Order Summary The Order Summary page displays the summary data for the orders created in the system, which includes the order information, payment information and invoice details associated with the order. Refer to Order Process guide for more details. On the Order summary page, you can apply the filters in the left navigation pane and view the data for the selected filter in card view or grid view. To access the Order Summary, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Order > Order Summary The data can be viewed using the following options: Click the ( ) icon to view the order summary data in card view. You will be able to view the primary details of the order. To view the additional details of the order, click the ( )icon on the record. Click the ( ) icon to view the data in grid view. This displays the combination of primary and additional details of the order. You can refresh the order summary for a selected order. To do this, select the order from the list and click Refresh Order Summary. In the card view, refresh order summary can also be done by clicking the ( ) icon displayed in the order record. Click the write off-automatic button to write off any tax and shipping & handling (S&H) charges that are recalculated because of the increase in the order total. Filters In the left navigation pane, there are various filter options to filter the data. You can use the text search and drop-down search options. To save a filter, click the   icon. The Save Filter pop-up window is displayed. Enter the name and description for the filter. Select the Set as Default check box to set the filter as a default filter and select the Share with others check box to share the filter with other users. Click the Select Saved Filter drop-down to view the details of the saved and shared filters. Order Audit Trail Order Audit Trail is used to see a history of all changes made to an order. Navigate to Menu > Orders In the Order List/Order Line List page, search and select the order/order line for which you want to view the order audit, and then click View Order Details. In the Order Details page, select Audit Trail option from the drop-down to view the audit details such as Updated By, Updated On, Entity Name, Entity ID, Changed Parameter, Old Value, and New Value. To narrow the records returned, select a date from the Date Drop Down and/or choose a specific line in the Order Line ID column.  The system will return records that apply to the filter criteria that you provided. It includes audit details such as Updated By, Updated On, Entity Name, Entity ID, Changed Parameter, Old Value, and New Value. Order Audit Order Audit enables you to track changes made to the orders. Navigate to Menu > Order from the home screen to access Order UI. The Order UI displays the order records. Each order record displays the details such as Order ID, Order Total, Order Subtotal, Payment Status, Order Type, Total Charges, Total Discounts, Total Taxes, and Fulfillment Status. Select an order record and click Details to display the following order details: Order Line - Click Order Line to view order line details such as order line ID, order line subtotal, order line total, quantity, and unit price. Order Charge Detail - Click Order Charge Details to view charge details such as charge detail ID, charge total, tax code, charge type, discount on , and IsProrated at same level. Order Tax Detail - Click Order Tax Detail to view the tax details such as Tax Detail ID, Tax Amount, Tax Rate, Taxable Amount, Tax Type Id, Tax Rate, Tax Code, Is Invoice Tax, Jurisdiction, and Jurisdiction Type Id. Invoice - Click Invoice to view the invoice details such as Amount Processed, Invoice Id, Invoice SubTotal, Invoice Total, Invoice Type Id, Package Id, Status Id, Total Charges, Total Taxes. Order Audit - Click Order Audit to view the audit details such as Changed Parameter, Old Value, New Value, Entity Name, Business Key, Business Key Value, Trace ID, Span ID, Service ID, and Path URL Order Analysis Order Analysis enables you to view the evaluated location along with the costs considered by the allocation engine for fulfilling an order. Refer to the Order Analysis section in How Promising Works for more details. Navigate to Menu > Orders In the Order List/Order Line List page, search and select the order/order line for which you want to view the order analysis, and then click View Order Details. In the Order Details page, select Order Analysis from the drop-down to view the allocation information such as order number, shipment method, order created date, number of units, order total, shipment and handling charges, ship to location, and evaluated locations with the cost details. Customer Communications Customer Communications enables the user to see the notes and emails associated with an order. Navigate to Menu > Orders On the Order List/Order Line List page, search and select the order/order line for which you want to view the customer communications, and then click View Order Details. On the Order Details page, select the Customer Communications option from the drop-down to view the Notes and Email tabs. The Note tab provides the details related to notes, such as last update date, last updated by, type and note. The Email tab provides the details related to email communication, such as the date on which the communication was created, type of email, from, to and subject. Note that this tab displays order transactional emails that are stored in the customer interaction component for the selected order, which does not include PayByLink Emails.