# Order Scheduling

**Permalink:** order_scheduling
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Order Management/UI Help/Order Processing/Order Scheduling
**Content Length:** 33,252 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:59:58.755307

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Order Management››UI Help››Order Processing ››Order Scheduling Order Scheduling Order SchedulingMaster Data ConfigurationsRegionsRegion schemas Region lookupCarriersCarrier ZonesCarrier zone transit timeCarrier SchedulingItemsItems - Fulfillment Processing TimeLocation ConfigurationLocation Processing TimeLocation Carrier Pick TimeLocation Scheduling HoursLocation - Service Level based Processing TimeLocation - VAS based Processing TimeLocation Holidays Merge Route Predictive Promising ConfigurationCalendar ConfigurationCustomers Master Data Configurations Regions Geographical areas identified by postal codes are called regions.  Based on the geographical areas, you can configure region schemas and region lookup. Refer to the Factors affecting Scheduling section for details. Region schemas The region schema is defined for logical grouping of regions. For example, the France Region Schema will populate all the regions in France. To configure region schema, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Master Data > Manage Carriers > Regional Schemas. Click Add or select the required region schema configured and click View. Enter the name and match attributes for the region schema. Enter the maximum sequence number. Click Save. Region lookup The region lookup finds the matching schema for a country code. For example, if origin and destination is France, then the schema will match with France Region Schema. To configure region lookup, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Master Data > Manage Carriers > Region Lookup. Click Add or select the required region lookup configured and click View. Enter the lookup ID and country code. Enter the region schema name for which the lookup configuration is set. Click Save. Carriers Carrier Zones Carrier zone defines a group of transit lane between two regions for the order shipment to travel. Refer to the Factors affecting Scheduling section for details. To configure carrier zones and transit lanes, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Master Data > Manage Carriers > Carrier Zones. Click Add or select the required carrier zone configured and click View. Enter Lane ID, Zone ID, Carrier Code, and Service Level. Enter the origin and destination regions, and then click Save. Note: Zones are a grouping attribute of the transit lanes and don't have to be configured beforehand. Carrier zone transit time Carrier zone transit time defines the time taken for the carrier to deliver shipments for a zone. Refer to the Factors affecting Scheduling section for details. To configure carrier zone transit time, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Master Data > Manage Carriers > Carrier Zone Transit Time. Click Add or select the required carrier zone transit time configured and click View. Enter Zone ID, Carrier Code and Transit Time. Click Save. Carrier Scheduling Carrier scheduling defines the operating time required by a shipment that is in transit. Refer to the Factors affecting Scheduling section for details. To configure carrier scheduling, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Master Data > Manage Carriers > Carrier Scheduling. Click Add or select the required carrier scheduling operation hours configured and click View. Enter Carrier Code, Service Level, and Region Name. Enter the day of the week with the start and end time. Click Save. Items Items - Fulfillment Processing Time This configuration allows users to define a processing time specific to an item. Item processing times will be used while computing delivery dates for the product and cart ATP calls. Refer to Delivery Dates Services for more details. To configure this: Navigate to Menu > Master Data > Manage Items > Items. In the Items page, click Add or select an existing item and click View. In the Handling attributes tab, enter the Fulfillment Processing Time (in Hours) and other necessary details. Click Save. Location Configuration Location Processing Time Location processing time is the average time required to process an order. Refer to the Factors affecting Scheduling section for details. To configure location processing time, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Inventory Configuration > Inventory Location. On the Inventory Locations page, click Create or select the required configured location and click Edit. On the Location Details page, enter the mandatory values for the location, such as Location ID, Display ID, Location Status ID, Location Type ID, and other necessary details, Enter the Location Processing Time, which is the average time to process an order. Click Save. Location Carrier Pick Time Location carrier pick time is the time for the pick up of shipment from the location that is defined. Refer to the Factors affecting Scheduling section for details. To configure location carrier pick time, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Inventory Configuration > Inventory Location. On the Inventory Locations page, click Create or select the required configured location and click Edit. On the Location Details page, enter the mandatory values for the location, such as Location ID, Display ID, Location Status ID, Location Type ID, and other necessary details. Expand the Location Carrier Pick Time section, click Add. In the Add dialog box, enter Day of week and Pick Time, and then click Submit. Location Scheduling Hours Location scheduling hour is the time range within which a location can fulfill orders. Refer to the Factors affecting Scheduling section for details. To configure location scheduling hours, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Inventory Configuration > Inventory Location. On the Inventory Locations page, click Create or select the required configured location and click Edit. On the Location Details page, enter the mandatory values for the location, such as Location ID, Display ID, Location Status ID, Location Type ID, and other necessary details. Expand the Location Scheduling Hours section, click Add. In the Add dialog box, enter Day of Week. The valid values are 1-7 For example: Day of the week (1) - Monday Day of the week (2) - Tuesday Day of the week (7) - Sunday Enter the start and end time. The start and end time follows 24-hour time format and accepts decimal values. For example: To set the time from 8.00AM to 2.00 PM, enter the Start Time = 08.00 and End Time = 14.00. Click Submit. Location - Service Level based Processing Time This configuration allows users to define the list of eligible service levels for a location. In addition to that, users can configure processing times against each service level which is used to compute delivery dates for the product and cart ATP calls. Refer to Delivery Dates Services for more details. To configure this: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Inventory Configuration > Inventory Location. On the Inventory Locations page, click Create or select the required configured location and click Edit. On the Location Details page, enter the mandatory values for the location, such as Location ID, Display ID, Location Status ID, Location Type ID, and other necessary details. Expand the Location Service Level section, click Add. In the Add dialog box, enter the following and click Submit. Location Service Level Id - Business key for the service level Service Level Code - The service level supported for that location. Processing Time - Time (in Hours) required to process and deliver a customer order for a specific service level. Add all the service levels and corresponding processing times for that location by following the above steps 3 and 4. Location - VAS based Processing Time This configuration allows users to define the processing time for a specific value added service for a location. VAS based processing times will be used to compute delivery dates for the product and cart ATP calls. Refer to Delivery Dates Services for more details. To configure this: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Inventory Configuration > Inventory Location. On the Inventory Locations page, click Create or select the required configured location and click Edit. On the Location Details page, enter the mandatory values for the location, such as Location ID, Display ID, Location Status ID, Location Type ID, and other necessary details. Expand the Location VAS Option section, click Add. In the Location VAS Option dialog box, enter the following and click on Save. Location VAS Option Id - Business key for the value added service. Value Added Service Id - The value added service that the location offers. Processing Time - Time (in Hours) required to process and deliver a customer order for a specific value added service. Add all the value added services supported by that location by following the above steps 4 and 5. Location Holidays Location holiday allows you to enter the holidays for the location. Refer to How Scheduling Works for more details. To configure location holidays, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Inventory Configuration > Inventory Location. On the Inventory Locations page, click Create or select the required configured location and click Edit. Refer to Inventory Location for more details. On the Location Details page, enter the mandatory values for the location, such as Location ID, Display ID, Location Status ID, Location Type ID, and other necessary details. Expand the Location Holidays section, click Add. In the Add dialog box, enter Date and Description, and then click Submit. Merge Route The location can have multiple merge routes along with 'ExternalRouteId'. If 'ExternalRouteId' is present on the routes, then location will select the matching merge route during allocation. In case there is no matching 'ExternalRouteId', the order will be directly shipped from the Origin Location. To configure merge route, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Inventory Configuration > Inventory Location. On the Inventory Locations page, click Create or select the required configured location and click Edit. Refer to Inventory Location for more details. On the Location Details page, enter the mandatory values for the location, such as Location ID, Display ID, Location Status ID, Location Type ID, and other necessary details. Expand the Merge Route section, click Add. In the Add dialog box, enter the Route ID, Carrier, Service Level, and External Route Id, and then click Submit. Predictive Promising Configuration Machine Learning helps to find more accurate estimated ship and delivery dates based on historical data. Training for machine learning model can be initiated on the Predictive Promising Configuration UI. Refer Predict Promising with Machine Learning for more information. To configure predictive promising configuration and initiate machine learning training, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Enterprise Fulfillment > Predictive Promising Configuration. Click Create to create a new configuration. On the Predictive Promising Configuration page, enter the Predictive Config Id and select the Predict Earliest Date Mode. The Predictive Earliest Date Mode can be live or passive. The possible values are: Ship Date - Passive Ship Date - Live Ship Date - Live Delivery Date Passive Ship and Delivery Dates - Passive Ship and Delivery Dates -Live. Refer to the Predictive Promising Option for more details. Select the Delivery Date Source for On-Time Metrics from the following options: Estimated Delivery Date Requested Delivery Date Promised Deliver Date The delivery performance metrics on the dashboard will be computed and displayed based on the selected date. Click Save to save the predictive promising configuration. Select the newly created configuration for predictive promising to perform the following actions: Initiate Training Click Initiate Training to send a request to Machine Learning to initiate the training. You can now see a new field Training Summary with a link in the Predictive Promising configuration record that was created. Click the link to check the training summary status. On the Training Summary page, you can view the details of the training like Use Case Id, Pipeline Id, Model Status, Last Training Status, Last Deployed Date, Created and Updated Date. If Model Status is Deployed, it indicates that the machine learning model is available to predict the earliest dates. Click the Last Training Details, which is the response from the Machine Learning to view the following details: Workflow Stage: Displays the workflow stages. The different workflow stages are Date Extraction, Data Preparation, Model Building, and Model Selection. Status: Displays the status of each workflow Start Date: Date on which the workflow starts End Date: Date on which workflow ends Edit Click Edit to modify the predictive promising configuration details Delete Click Delete. The delete warning message appears “This will delete the selected PredictiveConfig. Are you Sure?”. Click Yes to delete the config and No to exit without deleting the configuration. Note: Only one Predictive promising configuration is recommended. System picks up the first config (based on the created date) if multiple predictive promising configurations are created. Grants for Users The Predictive Promising Configuration feature requires the following grants: Grants Details masterdatafacade::promising::predictiveConfig::admin This is a facade service for admin grants of predictive promising configurations. omui::promising::predictiveconfig::initiateTraining To initiate training Location Scheduling Location Scheduling enables you to configure cut off time by location, delivery method, carrier, and service level. To configure cut off time, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Inventory Configuration > Location Scheduling In the Location Scheduling page, click create to create a new configuration. In the Location Id page enter the location Id for which you want to define location scheduling and click Save and Continue. In the Location Scheduling Detail page, click create to add the location scheduling details such as Location Scheduling Id, Service Level, Delivery Method, and Carrier details, and then click Save and Continue. In the Location Cutoff Time page, click Create and enter the following Location Cutoff Time details and click Submit. Enter the Location Cutoff Time Id Enter the Days of week to apply the cutoff time. The value should be 1-7 which corresponds to 1-Monday, 2-Tuesday, and so on. Enter the location cut off time for the day configured. Enter time in HH.MM in 24hr format. The newly created Location Cutoff Time is displayed. Click Save and Continue to display the Location Pickup Time by Carrier. In the Location Pickup Time by Carrier page, click Create and enter the following details for location pickup time by carrier and click Submit. Location Pick Time by CarrierId – This enables you to have multiple pick times during the same day. Enter the Days of week to apply the carrier pick up time. The value should be 1-7 which corresponds to 1-Monday, 2-Tuesday, and so on. Enter the carrier pick time for the day configured. Enter time in HH.MM in 24hr format. The newly created Location Pickup Time is displayed. Click Save and Finish. Calendar Configuration The Calendar Configuration provided the ability to create, view and update calendars by specifying a shift name, selecting the day of the week, and setting the timings. Additionally, it gives you the option to override the configured shifts for both working and non-working days. Refer to Scheduling with Customer Delivery Calendar for more details. To set the calendar configuration, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Organization > Calendar Configuration On the Calendar Configuration page, select an existing calendar to update or view the calendar details or click Create to create a new calendar. Enter the Calendar Config Id, Calendar Config Name, and the description of the calendar, and then click Save. Expand the Calendar Configuration Day section and click Add to configure the shift details. In the Add pop-up window, select the day of the week. Enter the shift name, start time, end time and description of the shift, and then click Submit. For example, to set the morning shift for Mondays with the start time as 9 am and end time as 6 pm, enter the following details: Day Id - Monday, Shift Name - Morning shift, Start Time - 09:00, End Time - 18:00, Description - Regular shift. To override the shift for any day that has already been configured in the above step, expand the Calendar Configuration Date Override section and click Add. Select the day for which you want to override the shift details. Enter the name of the shift. Make sure that the shift name that you enter here matches with the existing shift in the Calendar Configuration Day section. Set the start time and end time. Select if the day is a working or a non-working day by selecting the appropriate option, and then click Submit. If a regular shift is overridden by a non-working override, that is, if IsNonWorking = Yes, If the shift name matches with the shift name on the calendar configuration day, the entire shift is overridden irrespective of the time provided. If the shift name does not match, then the system will ignore the override. If a regular shift is overridden by a working override, that is, if IsNonWorking = No, If the shift name matches with the shift name on the calendar configuration day, the shift is overridden for the time range configured. If the shift name does not match and the override time overlaps with the regular shift time, the calendar will display the regular working hours. If the shift name does not match and the override time falls outside the regular shift time, the calendar will display the regular working hours plus the override shift time. Customers The Customers feature enables you to add, view, and update customer details. The Customers UI allows you to add several addresses for each customer, such as office, delivery, project location, and so on, and also associate the calendar with the customer. The delivery dates are determined based on the calendar selected for each specific address. Refer to Scheduling with Customer Delivery Calendar for more details. To create the customer, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Master Data > Manage Customers > Customers. On the Customers page, select an existing customer to update or view the customer details or click Create to create a new customer. Enter the Customer ID, Customer First Name, Customer Last Name, Calendar Config Id, and other necessary details, and then click Save. In the Customer Address section, click Add to add the address for the customer. Note that a customer can have multiple addresses. In the Add window, enter the Address ID, Address Type ID, Address name, and other necessary details. Select the Calendar Config Id to associate the calendar with the customer address and then click Save.