# Value Added Services (VAS)

**Permalink:** order-pricing-charges-vas
**Content Length:** 5,963 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:34:23.152330

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Selling&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Pricing&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Charges ››Value Added Services (VAS) Value Added Services (VAS) Implementation FlavorHow to extend the Order component to copy order line Value Added Service to release/fulfillment without customization?Related Articles Value added services (VAS) are item-level services such as gift wrapping, monogramming, and embroidery, which a customer can optionally add during order capture. Value added services are defined using a two-tier system which has VAS Types and VAS Options. VAS Types are used to define the high-level categories such as gift wrapping and monogramming. VAS Options are used to define the sub-categories of each VAS Type, such as Free Gift Wrapping, Wedding Gift Wrapping, and Birthday Gift Wrapping.&nbsp; Value added services can optionally include a charge, which can be configured for each VAS Type. That charge can be overridden, if required. Upon adding a VAS to an order line, the order total is updated to reflect the additional VAS amount. VAS is applied at the order line level and is independent of the item quantity in the line. Each business offers unique services, and these services must be set up in the system so that&nbsp;customer service agents&nbsp;and store associates&nbsp;can select from the available options. The following configuration is required for value added services: Define the list of all VAS types that are offered. For example, a retailer may offer tailoring, monogramming, embroidery, and gift wrapping. Configure VAS types in the&nbsp;Value Added Services UI. For each VAS type defined in the previous step, define a list of VAS options, or sub-categories, which are available. For example, for the VAS type monogramming, there may be three VAS options offered: small monogram, medium monogram, and large monogram. Additionally, VAS prices and currency are also defined in this configuration.&nbsp;Configure VAS options in the&nbsp;Value Added Services&nbsp;UI. &nbsp; Define a list of VAS types&nbsp;supported for each&nbsp;item. Depending on the nature of an item, the value added services can vary. For example, only apparel&nbsp;items can support&nbsp;tailoring, monogramming, and embroidery, but almost all&nbsp;items support&nbsp;gift wrap. Configure available VAS types in the Item UI. Note:&nbsp; If retailers want to use tax codes for orders in the contact center, it is always recommended to configure tax code at the Item Value Added Service Types configuration. The reason for this is:&nbsp; The tax code will be stored as part of the order/orderline charge details in the contact center UI if it is configured in the Item Value Added Service Types. This applies to the initial creation of an order. During the initial creation of an order, if the tax code is not configured in the Item Value Added Service Types, it will be automatically populated based on the tax code override configuration.&nbsp; Note: Extension work is required to leverage the Value Added Service Types during Order fulfillment process. Implementation Flavor How to extend the Order component to copy order line Value Added Service to release/fulfillment without customization? Include &ldquo;OrderLineVASInstructions&quot; in both publish order template and release template to publish VAS information in publish order and release outbound. Additionally, extension work is required to translate VAS instructions into Fulfillment line notes. Related Articles Shipping and Handling