# Charges

**Permalink:** order-pricing-charges
**Content Length:** 12,209 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:34:22.319736

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Selling&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Pricing ››Charges Charges Previous&nbsp;I&nbsp;Next &nbsp; Informational ChargesHandling ChargesSurchargesMisc. Charges 1 to 6Charge Type OverrideImplementation FlavorsHow to make base charge types&nbsp;as non-refundable for header appeasements?Troubleshooting GuideWhy doesn&#39;t the system calculate ChargeTotal and populate in OrderChargeDetail when an Informational Promo/Coupon is created?When a 100% line appeasement is applied on a fulfilled order, why does the system&nbsp;reevaluate the previously applied header appeasement?&nbsp;Related Articles Charge types are not configurable and not on the quantity level. The types of charges supported by the system are: Shipping and Handling Value Added Services Handling Hazmat Surcharge Coupon Promotion Appeasement Return Shipping Return Fee Write Off Miscellaneous 1 to Miscellaneous 6 Details of many charge types are displayed on the contact center screens,&nbsp;including Shipping, Value Added Services, Coupons, Promotions, Appeasements, Return Shipping, and Returns Fees. Details of other charge types such as Hazmat, Handling, Surcharge and Write Off are not displayed in the contact center, but these charges are still included in the &quot;Total Charges&quot; calculations in contact center. If you need to map charges for which no charge type exists today, consider using an existing charge type. For instance, Hazmat charges can be used for pass-through charges for which contact center display is not an issue. Informational Charges If a charge has &quot;Is Informational&quot; set as&nbsp;true on the&nbsp;order line charge detail, it will be considered for all the process in the order. However, just like &quot;Is Informational Tax&quot;, it&nbsp;is not counted in any totals.&nbsp; Handling Charges Handling charges are specific handling charges other than S&H charges for special handling of items. For example, handling charges could be to protect the health and safety of employees or the public and the environment. This is not the handling charges charged to the customer for&nbsp;processing an order or transaction. Handling charges are always refunded; and the system does not allow you to disable this functionality, including via the IsNotRefundable field in the respective order charge type configuration.&nbsp;Handling charges do not support mod types triggered for charge overrides.&nbsp;If handling charges need to be recalculated due to some changes in the item price, custom logic is to be implemented. Surcharges A surcharge is the charge levied on shipping charges or any other charge type. Surcharges must be calculated outside Manhattan&nbsp;Active&trade;&nbsp;Omni&nbsp;and populated during order import.&nbsp;Surcharges do not support mod types triggered for charge overrides.&nbsp;If surcharges need to be recalculated due to some changes in the item price, custom logic is to be implemented. Misc. Charges 1 to 6 This charge type can be used to map any charge type which does not fall in the category of the specific charge types available out of the box for example,&nbsp;donations, tips, and so on. The system&nbsp;will not automatically calculate or recalculate the charges when the order is created or updated, it should be calculated outside the system and populated during order import/update. If the charges are expected to get recalculated due to some changes in the item price etc., custom logic has to be implemented. These charges are defined as &quot;Tax Included&quot; out of the box. The system does not support excluding these charge types from refunding if appeasements or discounts are applied.&nbsp;Refer here on how to exclude&nbsp;Misc. Charge Type from getting refunded when an appeasement is applied. Miscellaneous charges can also be exempted from proration on specific order lines to allow more control over which order charges are invoiced against specific items. On order import, the host system can specify order lines to be exempted from a particular miscellaneous charge type, so that the charge is only invoiced against desired item shipments. See Charges On First Invoice Charge Type Override Charge types are defined&nbsp;at the system level and are not designed to be overwritten. To provide some flexibility on order charge behavior,&nbsp;charge type overrides can be configured by individual charge type. This can be done&nbsp;via API and the Charge Type Override UI. Skip Non-Discountable Items This flag controls the proration of header level charges for the discount, appeasement, promotion, and coupon charge types. Charge types with this flag set as true will not prorate to order lines marked as non-discountable when saved at the order header. See&nbsp;Configuration For Non-Discountable Items Tax Included This flag controls how specific&nbsp;charge types are sent to the tax engine. When charge types with this flag set to true are saved on an order, the corresponding order and line charges are sent to the tax engine with an indicator that the tax is already included in the item price and the taxes need to be back-calculated and displayed on the order for informational purposes only. See Tax Configuration&nbsp; Implementation Flavors How to make base charge types&nbsp;as non-refundable for header appeasements? Requirement: Miscellaneous charge types can be used to capture donations, but when appeasements are applied on order these donations should not be refunded. Current: Out of the box, when the header appeasement is applied on order from the call center&nbsp;the Discount On is set as &quot;Order&quot; which refunds the entire order total.&nbsp; Solution: The base charge types can be made non-refundable by implementing the command router and intercepting order save request. Add&nbsp;custom logic to apply`&nbsp;appeasement at&nbsp;order header level.&nbsp;If 100% appeasement is applied on an order, split the appeasement into 100% appeasement for &quot;ItemPrice&quot; and 100% appeasement for each &quot;ChargeType&quot; which needs to be refunded only (in this case refund should be for SnH only) For example, If 100% appeasement is applied at&nbsp;order header level, delete the current charge and split the appeasement&nbsp;as: 100% appeasement on ItemPrice, 100% appeasement on shipping if shipping charges exist, and 100% appeasement on any other charges that exist and needs to be refunded. Troubleshooting Guide Why doesn&#39;t the system calculate ChargeTotal and populate in OrderChargeDetail when an Informational Promo/Coupon is created? ChargeTotal should be populated when an Informational Promo/Coupon is created, since it is informational, and the external system should be knowing what is the actual ChargeTotal, so base will use it as-is. Therefore, base does not use ChargeTotal for computations since it is informational. In addition, the Order cannot calculate ChargeTotal based on RequestedAmount, so ChargeTotal should be passed to informational promos/coupons. When a 100% line appeasement is applied on a fulfilled order, why does the system&nbsp;reevaluate the previously applied header appeasement?&nbsp; A header appeasement applied before fulfillment is prorated based on weightage. Post fulfillment, if the line total of one line is reduced because of 100% appeasement, the system will no longer keep the same prorated appeasement amount for a lost item, and the remaining lines should now receive this amount based on their weightage. Related Articles TaxOverview & ProrationCurrency RoundingDiscounts