# Order Validation

**Permalink:** order-validation
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Order Management/Process & Configuration Guides/Order Orchestration/Creating and Updating Order/Order Validation
**Content Length:** 28,779 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:56:26.603780

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Order Management››Process & Configuration Guides››Order Orchestration››Creating and Updating Order ››Order Validation Order Validation Order ValidationOverviewConfigurationValidation Rule ConfigValidation Entry ConditionValidation RuleUI GrantsProfile-Based DataProfile Data for Configuration MenuProfile Data for RulesUsing Additional Attributes With Validation Rule ConditionsHow to Add an Extended Attribute to the Validation Rule ConditionTroubleshootingVerifying Rules That Apply to an Order Overview Order validations are a set(s) of configurable conditions and corresponding action that enforce orders to adhere to predefined business rules. The validation rules evaluate attempted changes to orders and enforce policies to maintain data quality and prevent erroneous or non-compliant updates. The order validations serve to: Automate Business Rule Enforcement: Systematically apply business logic during order creation and updates. Ensure Data Integrity: Prevent the introduction of invalid or inconsistent data into order records. Reduce Errors and Rework: Catch potential issues proactively before they persist in the system, minimizing the need for manual corrections. Provide Feedback: Offer clear indicators when rules are met, either preventing an update or flagging the order for further attention. The order validation process has the following core capabilities: Dynamic Invocation on Order Update: Order validations are automatically triggered and invoked each time an order is updated. This ensures that all changes, regardless of their source (example, UI, API, batch process), pass through the validation layer. Comprehensive Order Evaluation: Upon invocation, updated attributes on the order are analyzed, evaluating the new values and matching them to specific validation rules that apply to those attributes. Conditional Enforcement and Outcome: Based on the evaluation of configured validation rules, the validation rule applies one of two distinct outcomes: Soft Enforcement (Order or Order Line Hold): When a rule is matched, but the update is not critical enough to be prevented, the validation rule applies a configurable hold type to the order or applicable order line to indicate that a particular rule was applied and matched, providing an indication that an order may require follow-up, and optionally preventing allocation or release until the hold is resolved. Hard Enforcement (Update Restriction): When a critical rule is matched, indicating that the proposed update is invalid or non-compliant, the validation rule restricts the update altogether. This action returns an error message in the order update response, indicating the validation rule that was applied to the order which prevented the update. Configuration The configuration for the order validations can be done in the Validation Rule Config UI, and consists of three primary steps, outlined below. Validation Rule Config The Validation Rule Config contains the group of rules that should be applied to a sub-set of orders. The Validation Rule Config consists of a Config Id, a description, and a rule rank. The rule rank determines which rule config should be applied to an order if it matches multiple validation rule configurations based on the Validation Entry Condition. For example: Validation Rule Config Id: Tier1_Accounts Rule Rank: 10 Description: Validation Rule Configuration for Tier1 Accounts Validation Entry Condition The Validation Entry Condition exists at the validation rule config level, and allows order level attribute(s) to be configured to determine which orders should use a particular validation rule config when updates are performed. When configuring a list of entry conditions for a set of validation rules, please note that ALL conditions must be met for an order to be picked up by a set of rules. For example: Available Entity Name: Order (Only supported value is "Order") Attribute Name: CustomerTypeId Attribute Operator: = Attribute Value: Tier1 This rule config will be applied to all orders placed for accounts with "Customer Type" defined as "Tier1". Validation Rule The Validation Rule contains both the condition(s) to match which rules should be applied to an order, and the action to perform (apply hold or restrict the update) if a condition is matched during an update to the order. Rule Parameter Description Validation Rule Id Unique identifier for the validation rule. This must be unique across all validation rule configs. Restrict Update Determines if an update should be permitted on an order at all. If a rule is matched to an order where Restrict Update = true, the update to the order will fail and the rule restricting the update is displayed in the order update response. If a rule is configured to restrict updates to the order, the Hold Type option should not be selected. Hold Type The hold type to apply to the order if a rule is met. If the Hold Type option is used, the Restrict Update option should be set to false. Hold Entity The target entity to apply the configured hold type. Order or order line. Apply Rule Only on Order Create If set to true, this rule will only apply on order creation, and will not be applied on updates to the order, even if attributes present in this rule condition are updated. Condition Match If a rule contains multiple conditions, the condition match specifies if any conditions or all conditions should be met for a rule to be applied. Attribute Attribute from the order to consider during rule evaluation. Operator Operator type such as equals, less than, greater than, is null, and so on. Value The value of the configured attribute to be considered during rule evaluation. Note: It is highly recommended to consider when rules should be applied to an order and add additional attribute conditions to minimize inadvertent rule enforcement. For example, including an Is Confirmed condition to only evaluate a rule during order confirmation, or a status condition, to only evaluate rules prior to the order reaching a particular status. For example: Validation Rule 1: Apply a hold to the order when the order total exceeds 10000 and the order is confirmed. This rule will be evaluated when the order is created, a line is added, there is a change to the Order Total, or the Is Confirmed flag is updated. Validation Rule Id Restrict Update Hold Type Hold Entity Condition Match Order Total 10000 Rule false OrderTotalHold Order All Attribute Operator Value Order Total > 10000 Is Confirmed = true Validation Rule 2: Prevent order confirmation when an order line is missing a PO Id. This rule will be evaluated ONLY when the order is created, and there is no PO Id present. Validation Rule Id Restrict Update Order Create Only Hold Type Hold Entity Condition Match PO Id Rule true true N/A N/A All Attribute Operator Value PO Id Is Null N/A UI Grants Function Resource Id UI Menu Entry omui::order::menu::ValidationRuleConfig Create Validation Rule Config omui::order::validationruleconfig::create Edit Validation Rule Config omui::order:validationruleconfig::edit View Validation Rule Config omui::order::validationruleconfig::view Clone Validation Rule Config omui::order::validationruleconfig::clone Delete Validation Rule Config omui::order::validationruleconfig::delete Toggle Validation Rule omui::order::validationrule::toggle Create Validation Rule omui::order::validationrule::create Edit Validation Rule omui::order::validationrule::edit Delete Validation Rule omui::order::validationrule::delete View Validation Rule omui::order::validationrule::view Clone Validation Rule omui::order::validationrule::clone Profile-Based Data Profile Data for Configuration Menu Validation rule menu data is owned by the cmu::menuConfig provisioning profile. It may be required to perform a profile copy from the base profile to the respective organization profile. Verify if the required data is available at the respective profile level using the following API. If no data is available, use the same APIs with a system token to fetch the required data from the base profile, and save it directly to the required profile. GET {{url}}/commonui-facade/api/commonui-facade/menu/?query=MenuId=ValidationRuleConfig Profile Data for Rules Validation rule configuration data is owned by the ord::rules provisioning profile. It may be required to perform a profile copy from the base profile to the respective organization profile. Alternatively, verify if the required data is available at the respective profile level using the following APIs. If no data is available, use the same APIs with a system token to fetch the required data from the base profile, and save it directly to the required profile. GET {{url}}/order/api/rules/ruleTypeAvailableAttributeXref?query=RuleType=ValidationRule GET {{url}}/order/api/rules/ruleTypeAvailableEntityXref?query=RuleType=ValidationRule Using Additional Attributes With Validation Rule Conditions Attributes not available by default can be added to meet a particular requirement, including extended attributes. How to Add an Extended Attribute to the Validation Rule Condition Add the "extended" object as an available entity. Note this may already exist in your environment if extended attributes have been added to the Release Configuration. API {{url}}/order/api/rules/availableEntity/save HTTP Method POST Token to be used SystemAdmin Token Content-Type application/json Request Body { "TopLevelEntity": false, "AvailableEntityId": "extended", "EntityLabel": "Extended" } Add the "extended" object as an available attribute to the "order" available entity. API {{url}}/order/api/rules/availableAttribute/save HTTP Method POST Token to be used SystemAdmin Token Content-Type application/json Request Body { "AvailableEntityId": "order", "AttributeLabel": "Extended - Order", "AttributeDataType": { "AttributeDataTypeId": "object" }, "AvailableAttributeId": "extended" } Add the extended attribute (for example, "PriorityOrder") to the "extended" available entity. API {{url}}/order/api/rules/availableAttribute/save HTTP Method POST Token to be used SystemAdmin Token Content-Type application/json Request Body { "AvailableEntityId": "extended", "AttributeLabel": "PriorityOrder - Extended", "AttributeDataType": { "AttributeDataTypeId": "boolean" }, "AvailableAttributeId": "PriorityOrder" } Add the "extended" available entity to the rule type available entity reference for the "Validation Rule" rule type. API {{url}}/order/api/rules/ruleTypeAvailableEntityXref/save HTTP Method POST Token to be used Org Token Content-Type application/json Request Body { "TopLevelEntity": true, "AvailableEntity": { "AvailableEntityId": "extended" }, "RuleType": { "RuleTypeId": "ValidationRule" } } Add the "extended" available attribute on the "order" available entity to the rule type available attribute reference for the "Validation Rule" rule type. API {{url}}/order/api/rules/ruleTypeAvailableEntityXref/save HTTP Method POST Token to be used Org Token Content-Type application/json Request Body { "AvailableAttribute": { "AvailableEntityId": "order", "AvailableAttributeId": "extended" }, "RuleType": { "RuleTypeId": "ValidationRule" } } Add the extended attribute (for example, "PriorityOrder") on the "extended" available entity to the rule type available attribute reference for the "Validation Rule" rule type. API {{url}}/order/api/rules/ruleTypeAvailableEntityXref/save HTTP Method POST Token to be used SystemAdmin Token Content-Type application/json Request Body { "AvailableAttribute": { "AvailableEntityId": "extended", "AvailableAttributeId": "PriorityOrder" }, "RuleType": { "RuleTypeId": "ValidationRule" } } Troubleshooting Verifying Rules That Apply to an Order If a rule is applied to an order that is unexpected, or a rule is expected to be applied to an order that is not applied, run the following API for the respective order to verify the correct Validation Rule Configuration is matched to the order. If no rules are returned in the response, or different rules are returned in the response, verify the order meets the Entry Condition. GET {{url}}/order/api/order/validationRule/orderId/{OrderId}/preview