# Order Build

**Permalink:** order-build
**Content Length:** 18,361 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:03.156810

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process &amp; Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Build ››Order Build Order Build Previous&nbsp;I&nbsp;Next &nbsp; OverviewProcess FlowConfigurationImplementation FlavorsUIs and EntitiesServicesTroubleshootingRelated Articles Overview &nbsp; The Order Build&nbsp;process includes multiple steps leading up to the creation of a Purchase Order (PO). This process begins once the suggested order quantity is determined. The ordering system serves as the &quot;mechanical&quot; aspect of inventory management, functioning as the engine that transforms forecasts, actual orders, safety stock levels, and order quantities into finalized purchase orders. &nbsp; Process Flow &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; SOQ Trigger and Computation: The computation of the Suggested Order Quantity (SOQ) engine is triggered by changes in supply or forecast. Replenishment computes the SOQ. SOQ details are persisted in the following entities: Inventory Movement Summary (IMS): Updated at the relationship level. Latest Inventory Movement (LIM): Updated at the item level, detailing SOQ. Inventory Movement Factors (IMF): Contains the factors and values which forms the SOQ. Post SOQ Computation, Order Build process is triggered asynchronously for Replenishment Items The order build process runs every 30 minutes by default, though this timing is configurable. The queue may receive multiple updates within that time period. During order build, the system deduplictest the Items for processing. Order Build Process: When initiated for a relationship, the order build process fetches records from Latest Inventory Movement (LIM), which contains item-level details for a Relationship Verify Order status: Suggested: Refreshes the SOQ and order totals, then copies all records from LIM to IM (Inventory Movement). Review In Progress: Freezes SOQ updates. The SOQ is updated only when the review is canceled. Verify if the Order is Due: Order Due Day: The day an order must be placed, typically aligned with the review date set in the sourcing relationship or order group. The system verifies if an order is due for that day. Refer to Order Due for details. Perform Bracketing&nbsp;: Defines the minimum and maximum quantities for an order. If active brackets exist, the balance SOQ is updated accordingly.&nbsp;Refer to Bracketing to details. Example: If the SOQ is 210 units, and the bracket is set with a minimum of 250 units and a maximum of 500 units, the balance SOQ will be adjusted to 250 units as it falls below the minimum. The final order quantity will thus be 250 units. Examples below are with and without brackets.&nbsp; Without active Bracket - DC - Store 1 &nbsp; &nbsp; Bracket1 &nbsp; &nbsp; SOQ Order Due Min Max Final Order Quantity Item 1 100 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Item 2 80 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Item 3 30 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 210 Yes 0 0 210 Remark - Order Quantity remains the same as 210 units,&nbsp;Bracketing does not exist for this order. With Active Bracket : (SOQ less than Bracket size) DC - Store 1 &nbsp; &nbsp; Bracket &nbsp; &nbsp; SOQ Order Due Min Max Final Order Quantity Item 1 100 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Item 2 80 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Item 3 30 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 210 Yes 250 500 250 Remark - &nbsp;Order Quantity has been increased by 40 units to meet the Min of bracket, units. ( SOQ was &lt; Min bracket of 250 units) With Active Bracket : (SOQ between Bracket size) DC - Store 1 &nbsp; &nbsp; Bracket &nbsp; &nbsp; SOQ Order Due Min Max Final Order Quantity Item 1 150 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Item 2 120 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Item 3 50 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 320 Yes 250 500 320 &nbsp;Remark - Order Quantity remains the same as 320 units, the Bracketing, as Order quantity is in between the brackets. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; After determining the final order quantity, it updates the final order quantity in&nbsp;Inventory Movement, Inventory Movement Summary (relationship level), and with it Inventory Movement Factors will get updated. If no order is due, it directly updates all entities, making the SOQ the final Order Quantity. If the bracket does not exist, &quot;Suggested Order Quantity&quot;&nbsp;will be &quot;Final Order Quantity, but if the bracket exists, &quot;Balanced Order Quantity&quot; will be &quot;Final Order Quantity&quot; &nbsp; &nbsp; Suggested Order Qty Balanced Order Qty Final Order Qty No Active Brackets No Bracket 210 0 210 Active Bracket (Min -250 // Max - 400) Suggested Qty &lt; Bracket Size 210 250 250 Suggested Qty between Bracket Size 310 310 310 Suggested Qty &gt; Bracket Size 450 400 400 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Configuration N/A &nbsp; Implementation Flavors NA UIs and Entities The configuration UIs mentioned in this document are listed in the following table,&nbsp;along with information to&nbsp;navigate&nbsp;to the API documentation. Services N/A &nbsp; Troubleshooting N/A &nbsp; Related Articles &nbsp; Order DueSub GroupsPO/ASN ETA based Order ProjectionsChange SupplierOrder ExceptionsAutomatically Release OrdersOrder Review and ApprovalNotesOrder Refresh ProcessOrder SplitOrder Projections &nbsp;