# Order Orchestration

**Permalink:** order-orchestration
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Order Management/UI Help/Order Processing/Order Orchestration
**Content Length:** 83,491 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:59:52.702888

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Order Management››UI Help››Order Processing ››Order Orchestration Order Orchestration Order orchestration configuration of different components provides the framework for processing, monitoring and executing the orders. You can perform the following configurations in Order Orchestration: Order OrchestrationOrder Type ConfigurationOrder ConfigurationCancel Order with MilestonesOrder Line Milestone RuleHold ConfigurationHold TypesHold Resolve Reasons Selling ChannelsOver ShipmentLine TypesNote TypesTagging Rule ConfigurationAdding/Editing Order or Order Line TagOrder Tagging ConfigurationOrder Line Tagging ConfigurationConfiguration for Non-Discountable ItemsConfiguration to Auto Cancel Unallocated Units Configuration to Enable Post Release CancellationPrevent Post Release UpdatePrevent Shipment on Payment Failure Threshold Configuration to Cancel Payment Failed OrdersConfiguration to enable Ship It Instead - BOPIS to Ship to Home ConversionEmail MessageShorten Self-Service URL ConfigurationDelivery Tracking ConfigurationEnable Package Auto-CloseShipping RestrictionConfiguration to Evaluate Shipping RestrictionConfiguring Shipping Restriction RulesConfiguring Quote Expiration DaysConvert Quote to Customer OrderB2B OrdersB2B Order Updates Order Type Configuration Each order is assigned an order type. This order type is used to define unique business processes for each selling channel, brand, or other category of orders.  Refer to How to Set Up Order Type Configuration for details. To configure order type, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Types. Click Add. In the Order Type ID field, assign an ID for the order type. In the Document Type ID field, specify if the order type is for a customer order, retail order, or quote order. (Currently MAO only supports Customer, Retail, and Quote Document Types and custom document type cannot be added) In the Order Configuration ID field, assign an order configuration ID. In the Description field, enter a description for the order type. Click Save. Order Configuration Order configuration consists of a set of parameters such as price and promotion, shipping and handling, tax, payment, monitoring rules, and fulfillment services. You can configure every parameter with permissions in the order configuration based on your business requirements. The new configuration page contains default settings. To know more about the parameters and to determine which setting is ideal for your business requirement, refer to Factors Affecting Order Configuration for details. To set up order configuration, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Configuration. The following tabs are available: General - To enable Price and Promotion, Shipping and Handling, Tax, and Payment. Return and Exchange - To set parameters for Return, Exchange, Order Return fee, and Line Return Fee. Modification Rules - To configure modification rules for Order Level, Order Line Level, Return Line Level, and Quantity Level. Order Monitoring - To configure the expected time rule and the monitoring rules. Cancel Order with Milestones Automatic cancellation of orders can be configured using milestones. To add a rule to cancel orders if a particular milestone is missed, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Configuration UI Click the Order Monitoring tab and within a milestone (Confirmed, Allocated, Released, Fulfilled), create a rule with the event as "CancelOrder". If a milestone is not met within the given time period, the event is fired and the order is canceled. Order Line Milestone Rule Order line Milestone Rule is a framework that enables you to define order line monitoring rules. For each milestone, the configuration has an expected time in which a milestone should be achieved, and the action which should be taken if that milestone is not reached within the expected time. To access Order Line Milestone Rule, navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Line Milestone Rule. The Filters panel contains the following filters: Order Type ID - to filter order line milestone by order type ID Delivery Method ID - to filter order line milestones by delivery methods. The available options are: Email, PickUpAtStore, ShipToAddress, ShipToReturnCenter, ShipToStore, StoreReturn, and StoreSale. Is Gift  - Enables you to filter by gift order lines. To create a new order line milestone rule, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Line Milestone Rule. Click Create to display the Order Line Milestone Rule page. Select the Delivery Method ID and Order Type ID from the corresponding drop-down. Enter the unique identifier for the Rule. Select the Is Gift check box to indicate if the rule is for the gift order line. Click Save. To add Order Line Monitoring Rule In the Order line Monitoring Rule section, click ADD. Enter the Rule Id, which is the unique identifier for the rule. Select the Milestone Definition Id that refers to the milestone definition which should be monitored. Select the Type. The possible Values are: Expected Time : The monitoring rule will fire event if the actual time is not met by the time defined based on the defined duration Actual Time : The monitoring rule will fire after the actual time is met based on the defined duration Set the Duration in seconds. This is the relative duration in which the rule will be executed. It can be positive or negative for Expected type and only positive for Actual type. Set Raise Always as Yes or NO. If set as yes, in case of Expected type, the system will fire the event even if the milestone is met. It is not valid for ACTUAL type Select the Event Name which should be fired if the milestone is not met by the monitoring time. Click Submit. To Add Expected Time Rule In the Expected Time Rule section, click Add. Enter the Rule Id, which is the unique identifier for the rule. Select the Milestone Definition Id that refers to the milestone definition which should be monitored Select the Dependent Milestone ID. Note that the expected time is calculated based on this milestone. Applicable for types AFTER_MILESTONE and AFTER_EXPECTED_DATE_OF_MILESTONE Select Type from the available options: STATUS - The expected time is calculated based on the time when the status of entity reaches the given Dependent Status AFTER_MILESTONE - The expected time is calculated based on the time when the entity reaches the Dependent Milestone AFTER_EXPECTED_DATE_OF_MILESTONE - The expected time is calculated based on the expected time of the Dependent Milestone TIME_PROPERTY - The expected time is calculated based on the given property of the entity Select the Dependent Status Id. Note that the expected time is calculated based on the time when this status is reached. Applicable only if the Type is STATUS Enter the Time Property. Note that the expected time is calculated based on the given property. Set the Duration in seconds. This is the duration in which the rule will be executed. Click Submit. Hold Configuration There are various business and system reasons to place an order or order line on hold. Placing an order on hold prevents an order from progressing through the order lifecycle, and brings an order to the attention of someone who can manually resolve the reason for placing the order on hold. Refer to Hold for details. The hold type and hold resolve configurations are discussed in the following section. Hold Types Hold types enable you to configure certain categories of holds. For example, an Address Verification hold is applied to an order line and prevents the line from allocating items, until a user updates the address to a valid value. To configure hold types, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Hold Type. Click Add. Enter the hold type ID. Enter the name and description for the hold type. Select the Can Apply Manually check box to apply the hold manually. Click Save. Hold Resolve Reasons To resolve an order that is on hold, you need to enter a resolve reason code and a description. To configure hold resolve reason codes, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Hold Resolve Reason. Click Add. Enter the hold resolve reason ID. Enter the name and description for the hold resolve reason. Click Save. Selling Channels The selling channel configuration specifies the channel, such as the store, call center, or web site, by which the order was captured. Refer to the configuration guide for details. To configure selling channels, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Selling Channels. Click Add. Enter the selling channel ID and description for the selling channel. Click Save. Over Shipment The order management supports over shipment for order. Typically, when the fulfillment facility ships more than the ordered quantity, then it is considered over shipment. This may happen as part of pullback or transfer orders. In some scenarios due to mismatch of inventory information between Fulfillment and Order Management systems, an order with lesser quantity might get created. Hence the Fulfillment system would need to move the entire stock of old inventory from a facility. Over shipment can be enabled for the following orders: Pullback Orders: Orders used to transfer a large amount of inventory from store to the distribution centers. Pullback orders are usually used for end of season inventory pullback. Transfer Orders: Orders used to transfer inventory from one store to another. Transfer orders are smaller volumes than pullback orders, which are commonly used to rebalance inventory based on the other store requirements. Note: Pullback/Transfer orders are not applicable for customer orders. Note: Unlike in the short scenario where order line quantity is reduced the order line quantity is not updated in case of overshipment. The Order Configuration user interface enables you to allow over shipment for an order. To enable over shipment, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Configuration. In the General tab, in the Miscellaneous section, select the Overage Allowed check box. Note: On selecting the Overage Allowed check box, the Payment section will be disabled. This is done to avoid any impact to existing payment and invoice flow. Line Types Line types are used to categorize types of order lines within an order. Refer to the configuration guide for details. To configure line types, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Line Types. Click Add. Enter the line type ID and description for the line type. Click Save. Note Types Note types are used to categorize orders based on the following: Instructions regarding an order, such as fulfillment or delivery instructions. Customer communication notes that provide information to CSRs. Refer to the configuration guide for details. To configure note types, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Note Types. Click Add. Enter the note type ID, select a category (Instruction or Customer Communication), and then enter a description. Click Save. Tagging Rule Configuration Tagging Rule Configuration enables you to define business rules to manage order and order lines associated with the corresponding tags. The business rule is set based on order, order line, item, and customer entities. Refer to configuration guide for details. The Manage Order Configuration module includes the following features to manage the order configuration process. Add/Edit order or order line tag Order tagging configuration Order line tagging configuration Adding/Editing Order or Order Line Tag Prior to defining the rules, ensure that you have added order/order line tag in the system. To add a tag, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Tag In the Tags page, to add a new tag, click Add. Enter the Tag Id. Select the Tag Entity Name. The possible values are Order and Order line. Enter the description for the tag, and then click Save. To view the details of an existing tag, in the Tags page, select an existing tag and click View. Order Tagging Configuration Order Tagging Configuration enables you to expose order line and customer attributes in order tagging rules and evaluate these rules for order tagging. To configure order tagging, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Tagging Configuration In the Order Tagging Rule, click Add New Config to add a new configuration. Enter the name, starting date, and ending date, and description for the configuration, and then click Save. To create a rule condition that defines the eligibility criteria for order, click Add New Criteria in the Rule Condition section. Enter the name for the selection criteria. Click the Select Available Attributes drop-down list. In the Available Attributes pop-up window, select the entity and their attributes, and then click Save. You can also edit and delete the existing rule conditions by clicking the respective and icons against each rule condition. To add tagging rules, click theicon in the Tagging Rules section. Select the option from the Tag To Apply drop-down list. To delete a rule, click the icon against the Tag To Apply drop-down. Click Save to save the order tagging rule. Order Line Tagging Configuration Order line Tagging Configuration enables you to expose order line, customer, and item attributes in order line tagging rules and evaluate these rules for order line tagging. To configure order line tagging, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Line Tagging Configuration In the Order Line Tagging Rule navigation bar, click Add New Config to add a new configuration. Enter the name, starting date, and ending date, and description for the configuration, and then click Save. To create a rule condition that defines the eligibility criteria for order, click Add New Criteria in the Rule Condition section. Enter the name for the selection criteria. Click the Select Available Attributes drop-down list. In the Available Attributes pop-up window, select the entity and their attributes, and then click Save. You can also edit and delete the existing rule conditions by clicking the respective and icons against each rule condition. To add tagging rules, click theicon in the Tagging Rules section. Select the option from the Tag To Apply drop-down list. To delete a rule, click the icon against the Tag To Apply drop-down. Click Save to save the order tagging rule. Configuration for Non-Discountable Items This feature enables you to prorate header manual discounts only to items which are discountable. To configure non-discountable items, perform the following steps: Navigate to Application Configuration > Manage Selling Configuration > Selling > Charge Type Override In the Charge Type Overrides page, click Add. In the Add Charge Type Override page, select the Charge Type ID. For example, select the Discount charge type. Select the Skip Non-Discountable Items check box to skip these types of items when prorating discounts across items in an order. This can be configured via API as well {{url}}/order/api/order/chargeTypeOverride/save { "IsTaxIncluded": null, "SkipNonDiscountableItems": true, "ChargeTypeId": { "ChargeTypeId": "Appeasement" } } Note: This configuration can be enabled only for charge type 'Discount', 'Appeasement, 'Promotion' and 'Coupons'. Ensure that the isDiscountable field is mapped to the order line, whether directly imported on orders or copied from the item master. Configuration to Auto Cancel Unallocated Units This feature enables you to directly cancel the units that are not allocated by Allocation, Batch Allocation, and Reallocation. The unallocated quantities are moved to back order, which can either be submitted for reallocation or canceled. To configure auto cancel unallocated units, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Configuration In the Allocation section of the General tab, select the Cancel Backordered Units check box. Click Save to save the changes. Configuration to Enable Post Release Cancellation Post Release Cancellation provides the ability to cancel items that are already released for fulfillment through Pick up in Store (BOPIS) and Ship to Home delivery methods. Ship to Store items can only be canceled until released.  Refer Late Order Cancellation for more information. To configure post release cancellation, perform the following steps: Navigate to > Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Configuration In the Post Release Cancellation section of the General tab, select the Allow post release cancellation check box to allow the following: User to initiate a pick up at store line cancellation until the line max status is picked up. If the line max status is less than picked up, then the system will cancel the line. If the order line's max status is Picked Up, the user can initiate a request to cancel eligible quantities, if any, the system will cancel all the quantities less than Picked Up. User to initiate Ship to Home line cancellation until the line max status is packed. If the line max status is less than packed, then the system will cancel the line. If the line max status is Packed, user can initiate a request to cancel eligible quantities, if any, the system will cancel all the quantities less than packed. This configuration also supports quantity level cancellation requests. However, one cannot request a cancellation for partially released units. In such case, the system will throw a validation error. Note: If this parameter is enabled from order config UI and on click of save, modification type config overrides are created for modification type "OrderLine::Cancel" and OrderLine::Quantity::Decrease for delivery method "Pick Up At Store" and restrict from status "7000 (Picked Up) in the backend, and for delivery method “Ship to Home” and restrict from status “3700 (Packed). If the parameter is disabled and on click of save, modification type config overrides are reset in the backend. Prevent Post Release Update For a business requirement where certain attributes on the partially fulfilled order line(s) have to be updated to impact quantities not yet released (open, backordered and allocated) and also ensure that these changes do not impact the existing released quantity, retailers can configure  the "Prevent Post Release Update" for a given order configuration. Once this feature is configured, the system will not trigger any post-release updates and the existing release and subsequent-merge legs will continue to have the previous values. Note: The configuration also allows retailers to increase the quantity on already released order lines by creating modification override for "OrderLine::Quantity::Increase" modtype with RestrictFromStatus=9000 for delivery method ShipToAddress. PreventPostReleaseUpdate-ModTypeOverrides { "OrderConfigId": "defaultConfig", "RequirePayment": false, "RequireTax": false, "PreventPostReleaseUpdate": true, "ModTypeConfig": [ { "ChangeStatus": "1000", "ModTypeConfigOverrides": [ { "DeliveryMethod": { "DeliveryMethodId": "ShipToAddress" }, "RestrictFromStatus": "9000" } ], "ModType": { "ModTypeId": "OrderLine::DeliveryDate" } }, { "ChangeStatus": "1000", "ModTypeConfigOverrides": [ { "DeliveryMethod": { "DeliveryMethodId": "ShipToAddress" }, "RestrictFromStatus": "9000" } ], "ModType": { "ModTypeId": "OrderLine::ShippingInfo" } }, { "ChangeStatus": "1000", "ModTypeConfigOverrides": [ { "DeliveryMethod": { "DeliveryMethodId": "ShipToAddress" }, "RestrictFromStatus": "9000" } ], "ModType": { "ModTypeId": "OrderLine::Quantity::Decrease" } }, { "ChangeStatus": "1000", "ModTypeConfigOverrides": [ { "DeliveryMethod": { "DeliveryMethodId": "ShipToAddress" }, "RestrictFromStatus": "9000" } ], "ModType": { "ModTypeId": "OrderLine::AddressId" } }, { "ChangeStatus": "1000", "ModTypeConfigOverrides": [ { "DeliveryMethod": { "DeliveryMethodId": "ShipToAddress" }, "RestrictFromStatus": "9000" } ], "ModType": { "ModTypeId": "OrderLine::FulfillmentGroupId" } }, { "RestrictFromStatus": "9000", "ChangeStatus": "1000", "ModType": { "ModTypeId": "OrderLine::OrderLinePromisingInfo::ExternalRouteId" } }, { "ModTypeConfigOverrides": [ { "DeliveryMethod": { "DeliveryMethodId": "ShipToAddress" }, "RestrictFromStatus": "9000" } ], "ModType": { "ModTypeId": "OrderLine::Quantity::Increase" } } ] } Refer to Update of Partially Released Lines for more information. To configure post release cancellation, perform the following steps: Navigate to > Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Configuration In the  Prevent Post Release Update section of the General tab, select the Enable Prevent Post Release Update check box. Note: This feature can be enabled only if Price & Promotion, Shipping & Handling and Other Charges, Tax and Payment are disabled for the order configuration. When this configuration is enabled, the system will automatically modify the modification type config for the order configuration and create modification overrides for the impacted modification types which will override any existing modification type overrides. Please review the modification type config overrides before enabling this feature. After enabling the configuration, the order configuration modification type should have the following modification type overrides created. PreventPostReleaseUpdate-ModTypeOverrides { "OrderConfigId": "defaultConfig", "RequirePayment": false, "RequireTax": false, "PreventPostReleaseUpdate": true, "ModTypeConfig": [ { "ChangeStatus": "1000", "ModTypeConfigOverrides": [ { "DeliveryMethod": { "DeliveryMethodId": "ShipToAddress" }, "RestrictFromStatus": "9000" } ], "ModType": { "ModTypeId": "OrderLine::DeliveryDate" } }, { "ChangeStatus": "1000", "ModTypeConfigOverrides": [ { "DeliveryMethod": { "DeliveryMethodId": "ShipToAddress" }, "RestrictFromStatus": "9000" } ], "ModType": { "ModTypeId": "OrderLine::ShippingInfo" } }, { "ChangeStatus": "1000", "ModTypeConfigOverrides": [ { "DeliveryMethod": { "DeliveryMethodId": "ShipToAddress" }, "RestrictFromStatus": "9000" } ], "ModType": { "ModTypeId": "OrderLine::Quantity::Decrease" } }, { "ChangeStatus": "1000", "ModTypeConfigOverrides": [ { "DeliveryMethod": { "DeliveryMethodId": "ShipToAddress" }, "RestrictFromStatus": "9000" } ], "ModType": { "ModTypeId": "OrderLine::AddressId" } }, { "ChangeStatus": "1000", "ModTypeConfigOverrides": [ { "DeliveryMethod": { "DeliveryMethodId": "ShipToAddress" }, "RestrictFromStatus": "9000" } ], "ModType": { "ModTypeId": "OrderLine::FulfillmentGroupId" } }, { "RestrictFromStatus": "9000", "ChangeStatus": "1000", "ModType": { "ModTypeId": "OrderLine::OrderLinePromisingInfo::ExternalRouteId" } }, { "ModTypeConfigOverrides": [ { "DeliveryMethod": { "DeliveryMethodId": "ShipToAddress" }, "RestrictFromStatus": "9000" } ], "ModType": { "ModTypeId": "OrderLine::Quantity::Increase" } } ] } Note: The modification type overrides to prevent post release update can be created only for "Ship To Address" delivery method and this feature is supported only for "Ship To Home" order lines. When this configuration is enabled, Price & Promotion, Shipping & Handling and Other Charges, Tax and Payment cannot be enabled for the order configuration and the following error message will be displayed - PreventPostReleaseUpdate can only be set to "true" when RequireTax is "false" and RequirePayment is "false". If this configuration is disabled and the order configuration is saved, the system will automatically delete the modification type overrides from the modification type config of the order configuration that was created automatically when it was enabled. All the related modification type overrides that were overridden when the configuration is enabled will be deleted automatically and not restored to the previous configurations if any - please review the modification type override configuration after disabling the configuration. Prevent Shipment on Payment Failure This feature enables the retailers to request for release cancellation to avoid fulfilling of orders when there is any payment failure. Refer here for more information. To configure post release cancellation on payment failure, perform the following steps: Navigate to > Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Configuration In the Post Release Cancellation section of the General tab, select the Prevent shipment on payment failure check box whenever there is a payment failure due to re-authorization on a released order. The system will request for release cancellation to avoid fulfilling of such an order. If the fulfilment system responds with success, release will be cancelled. Note that this feature works only when post release cancellation is enabled in the order config. Threshold Configuration to Cancel Payment Failed Orders This feature enables you to set the duration in hours after which the payment failed orders which are already released are eligible for cancellation, if the payment is not yet been added. Threshold calculation starts from the time the release was cancelled. If the threshold is not configured, then the orders are not cancelled.  Refer here for more information. To set the threshold for canceling payment failed orders, perform the following steps: Navigate to > Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Configuration In the Post Release Cancellation section of the General tab, specify the Cancel payment failed orders threshold in hours Configuration to enable Ship It Instead - BOPIS to Ship to Home Conversion Ship It Instead - BOPIS to Ship to Home conversion provides the ability to convert order lines with the delivery method "PickupAtStore" to the delivery method "ShipToAddress" after the order is already released to store fulfillment as Pickup At Store (BOPIS) order, and the items are picked by the store associate and kept ready for customer to come and pick-up. Refer Ship It Instead - BOPIS to Ship to Home Conversion for more information. To configure Ship It Instead, perform the following steps: Navigate to > Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Configuration In the Ship It Instead section of the General tab, select the Enable Ship It Instead check box. Note: If the Enable Ship It Instead check box is selected, on clicking the save button, the modification type config overrides are created for the below-mentioned modification types for "Pick up At Store" delivery method and restrict from status "3700" (Packed) by the system automatically. OrderLine::DeliveryMethod OrderLine::FulfillmentGroupId OrderLine::AddressId OrderLine::ShippingInfo If this check box is cleared, on clicking save, the modification type config overrides created when it was selected will be reset by the system automatically. Select the Calculate Shipping Charges when initiated by: Customer check box to calculate S&H charges for customer-initiated ship it instead conversions. Here, the customers will incur additional charges for the conversions. For example, in the case of a BOPIS order with a total of $100, if a "Ship It Instead" conversion adds $10 in S&H charges, the customer will be billed an extra $10. This configuration will not apply to conversions initiated by store and store short. Email Message The Email Message page enables you to configure email messages to be sent to the customers. Refer to the configuration guide for details. To configure email messages, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Email Message. On the Email Message page, select the required Email Message and click View. Select the Include Order Attributes check box to include corresponding order attributes in the email message. Click Save to save the changes. Shorten Self-Service URL Configuration The Shorten Self-Service URL configuration enables third party call to shorten self-service URL, which are included in publish order outbound text messages. Refer to configuration guide for details. To configure self-service URL, perform the following steps: 1.    Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Configuration. 2.    In the General tab, in the Miscellaneous section, select the shorten self-service URL check box. Delivery Tracking Configuration Delivery Tracking configuration can be used to enable the system to track delivery of packages through third party carrier providers in real time and move units to delivered status automatically and update real time ETA for each package associated to a tracking number for order lines with Ship To Address and Ship To Store delivery methods. Refer to the Delivery Tracking guide for details. To configure tax delivery tracking, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu >Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration  > Order Configuration. Select the configuration from the left tab, and then click the General tab. In the Delivery Tracking section, select the Track Delivery check box. Enable Package Auto-Close The Enable Auto Close Package Status configuration enables packages to be auto-closed once the value for order delivery track days has been exceeded. Refer to the Delivery Tracking guide for details. To configure package auto close, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu >Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Configuration. Select the configuration from the left tab, and then click the General tab. In the Delivery Tracking section, select the Enable AutoClosed Package Status check box. Shipping Restriction The shipping restrictions are the restrictions enforced by law agencies that retailers have to evaluate before shipping orders to their customers. Refer to Shipping Restriction for details. Configuration to Evaluate Shipping Restriction Shipping restrictions are evaluated when some of the following modification types are triggered during order capture or modification. Update Address Update Shipping Info Update Delivery Method Add Line The Modification Rules tab of Order Configuration allows you to configure shipping restriction. To configure shipping restriction, perform the following steps: Navigate Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Configuration. In the Modification Rules tab, select Order Line, and then select the Evaluate Shipping Restrictions check box for the Add Line, Update Delivery Method, Update Shipping Info, and Update Address modification types. Configuring Shipping Restriction Rules The Shipping Restriction page enables you to set the shipping restriction rules to notify customers of shipping restrictions configured. To add shipping restriction in the system, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Selling Configuration > Shipping & Handing > Shipping Restriction In the Shipping Restrictions page, click Create. Enter Product Class and Description of the shipping restriction. Select Is Restricted to put a hard stop shipping restriction so that the restricted line is put on hold. Select Is Hazmat to apply Shipping restriction for a hazardous item Select Ship to Country and Ship To State and enter the Ship to Postal Code to set the shipping restrictions for the specified country, state, and postal code respectively. Enter the Shipping method Id to apply shipping restriction for shipping method. Select Is Restricted for PO Box to apply shipping restriction if Ship To Address is identified as a PO Box. Enter Additional Information for shipping restriction, if any. Configuring Quote Expiration Days Quote provides the ability to convert a regular store transaction as quote to allow customers to purchase items in future with the quote's pricing. Every quote that is created will have an expiration day. The maximum quote expiration days can be set in the Orders Parameters UI. Refer Quote Orders for more details. To set the maximum quote expiration days, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Parameters In the Order Parameters UI, select the required parameter and click View. In the Details tab, select the Maximum number of quote expiration days. The maximum allowed number of days is 30. Convert Quote to Customer Order This feature enables the retailers to create a new customer order from a quote or convert an existing quote order to a customer order from both Omnifacade and MUP UIs. Refer to Quote Orders for more details Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Parameters Select the existing order parameter and click Edit. Select the Convert Quote to Customer Order check box and click Save. B2B Orders To view B2B orders, a dedicated MUP UI is available to view B2B orders and order details. Navigate to Menu > B2B Orders. B2B Order Updates B2B Order updates are available in the B2B Orders UI and B2B Order Details UI. Orchestration actions available for orders are: allocate, release, cancel, hold, and unhold. Upon executing the action, a new UI is displayed with the progress of each order. To update an order: Navigate to Menu > B2B Orders. Select a single order or multiple orders. Click the action button. Orchestration actions available for order lines are: allocate, release, and cancel. A toast notification informs the user if the action was successful. To update an order line: Navigate to Menu > B2B Orders. Select an order and click 'Details'. Select a single line or multiple lines. Click the action button.