# Holds

**Permalink:** order-hold-and-unhold
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Order Management/Process & Configuration Guides/Order Orchestration/Holds
**Content Length:** 23,192 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:56:40.754725

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Order Management››Process & Configuration Guides››Order Orchestration ››Holds Holds Previous I Next OverviewProcess FlowHow Order Holds WorkConfigurationConfiguring Hold TypesConfiguring Hold Reason CodesTroubleshootingThe order was put on fraud hold as there was no response received from the accertify gateway. Even if a success response is now being received from the fraud validation server, the order hold is still not being resolvedAn order was placed when the customer component was down. The order was hence put on hold with hold reason as 'Customer service not available’. Even if the customer component has been brought up now, the order hold is still not resolved. Hence, all orders are stuck in allocated statusI have to place a ship to address order without a shipping address. Is there a way to not get hold on my orderImplementation FlavorsHow to prevent Orders (having Digital Goods) from getting released?How to import an order with hold? Overview There are various business and system reasons to hold an order or order line. Holds typically prevents an order from progressing through the order lifecycle, or they bring an order to the attention of someone who may manually resolve the hold. For example, if a shipping address is not verified, then the order line can be put on hold until a user calls the customer to validate the address. Another example could be an order having a "payment fraud" hold and a "tax service not available" hold. The payment fraud hold is resolved when a user validates the customer's payment information, and the tax service hold is resolved when tax can be calculated for the order. Below are some use cases where the order or order line is put on hold: Error response from Vertex tax system : Order is put on hold whenever there is an error response from the tax calculation system. System should be able to auto resolve this hold whenever the tax calculations happen successfully. Error response from Payment system: HoldType is set to pendingPaymentAction. Some of the possible scenarios for payment failures are credit card auth expiry, credit card re-auth fails, credit card settlement failures, and so on. In such cases order must be put on hold. Fraud Check: HoldType is set to pendingFraudCheck, if merchant has chosen to use the fraud check service. S&H or Pricing component failures. Each hold has an associated Hold Type which defines what types of processes should be halted for an order with this type of hold. For each hold type, processes such as allocation and release can be prevented by configuring the allocation and release templates. A hold can be applied to an order or an order line, and multiple holds are supported at each level. For example, if a shipping address is not valid, then only the line with the invalid shipping address is put on hold. If multiple holds exist, then each hold is resolved independently. Holds can be applied manually or automatically. Manually: A supervisor may feel that an order needs to be placed on hold for fraud check, and applies the hold manually. It is possible to configure a particular hold type so that only users of a specific group or set of groups can apply the hold to an order. For example, a fraud check hold is manually applied if a business thinks that further analysis is needed. Automatically: The system cannot complete a critical process and must hold the order until the process can be completed. See the following system holds for more information. A hold can have one of two statuses: 1000 (Applied) and 2000 (Resolved). Process Flow OrderHolds How Order Holds Work Once an order is placed, order creation process identifies if any default hold is to be applied by looking into the configurations and rules. For example, Remorse Hold All hold types on order/line level are evaluated to check whether the order can be processed by the service/transaction. During Order processing, it is checked if there is any price, S&H or tax failure. If there is any such failure or if there is any service which has a hold preventing modification, then order is not modified and a business validation error is thrown. If there are holds which are eligible for resolution, they can be resolved, and their status can be moved to 'Resolved'. Order processing can further take place once holds are resolved. Holds which cannot be resolved stay in created status. Note : The IsHold attribute is present at order level and order line level. It gets calculated automatically on apply or resolve of hold. If any hold at order/order line level has been in open status (1000), then IsHold flag will be marked as true. If all the holds at order/order line level has been in closed status (2000), then IsHold flag will be marked as false. A hold can be applied using save/update order service only. Include the following JSON object at Order and Order Line Level to apply and resolve hold respectively. We can apply multiple holds at Order or Order Line level as per business need. Below is a sample of how order and line level holds are applied/resolved. Apply & Resolve Order HoldApply Order Hold "OrderHold": [ { "HoldTypeId": "CustomerFraudCheck", "ExternalCreatedDate": null, "ExternalCreatedBy": null, "StatusId": "1000", "ApplyReasonComments": "Order total is more $3000 for New Customer" } ] Resolve Order Hold "OrderHold": [ { "HoldTypeId": "CustomerFraudCheck", "ResolveReasonId": null, "ResolveReasonComments": "Customer checked", "StatusId": "2000" } ] Apply & Resolve Order Line HoldApply Order Line hold "OrderLineHold": [ { "HoldTypeId": "AddressVerification", "ExternalCreatedDate": null, "ExternalCreatedBy": null, "StatusId": "1000", "ApplyReasonComments": "Line total is more than $1000 and Address is not verified for Ship To Address line" } ] Resolve Order Line Hold "OrderLineHold": [ { "HoldTypeId": "AddressVerification", "ResolveReasonId": null, "ResolveReasonComments": "Address Verified", "StatusId": "2000" } ] Configuration Configuring Hold Types A hold prevents an order from being processed by certain types of transactions such as allocation or release. New hold types can be configured for certain categories of holds. For example, an Address Verification hold is applied to an order line and prevents the line from allocating, until a user updates the address to a valid value. Hold types are configured on the Hold Types UI. Refer to the below section on Business and System Hold Types pre-defined in the system. Business holds are defined in the application and used to halt order processing while waiting for an update from an external system or user. For example, an order is put on hold because a CSR is currently working through inventory issues for the order. The following business hold types are pre-defined: Hold Type Description PaymentFraud When a payment fraud response is received from the payment gateway. ReturnItemsPending Delays exchange shipment until receipt of return items. Resolved manually or upon return receipt. QuantityVariance Return order line has been flagged for quantity variance. Resolve manually. ItemVariance Return order line has been flagged for item variance. Resolve manually. ConditionVariance Return order line has been flagged for condition variance. Resolve manually. AwaitingShipToAddress Applied to Ship to Address Delivery Method when Address Id is not populated on the order line. This hold behavior is not applicable for retail orders. If the Return Verification Policy is configured to "Return Line" before resolving QuantityVariance Hold, the open quantity in Pending Return status has to be canceled manually using Cancel Eligible Quantity option available on the Order Line List page or backend API. Otherwise, the un-hold operation will throw an error and will not be successful. System holds are used if an exception occurs which could not be automatically resolved, and manual intervention is required. System holds can also be applied if communication between components fails, and this prevents an order from being priced, taxed, and so on. For example, the CustomerServiceNotAvailable hold is applied if the Customer component is down while creating an order. A CSR can manually resolve this hold by providing customer information. The SNHServiceNotAvailable hold is applied if the S&H component is down while creating an order, and S&H could not be calculated. A CSR can resolve this hold by overriding the S&H charges for order. The following table lists the pre-defined system holds: Hold Type Description CustomerServiceNotAvailable Applied if the Customer component is down while creating an order because customer information could not be retrieved. A CSR can resolve this hold by providing customer info. CustomerInfoNotAvailable Applied if customer ID is invalid or not available in the Customer component. A CSR can resolve this hold by providing customer info or a correct customer ID. PriceServiceNotAvailable Applied if the Price and Promotions component is down while creating or updating an order. A CSR can resolve this hold by overriding the price for each order line which is lacking a price. SNHServiceNotAvailable Applied if the S&H component is down while creating an order, and S&H charges could not be calculated. A CSR can resolve this hold by overriding S&H charges for the order. TaxServiceNotAvailable Applied if the Tax component is down while creating an order and tax could not be calculated. Note: Automatic unholding of system holds is currently out of scope. Configuring Hold Reason Codes When a hold is resolved, a resolve reason code captures the details of the hold resolution. New resolve reason codes can be configured for each hold type. Hold resolve reason codes are configured on the Hold Resolve Reasons UI. Troubleshooting The order was put on fraud hold as there was no response received from the accertify gateway. Even if a success response is now being received from the fraud validation server, the order hold is still not being resolved Step 1 – Check if the user has the grants to unhold the order Step 2 – Check if the resolveHold modType is being triggered An order was placed when the customer component was down. The order was hence put on hold with hold reason as 'Customer service not available’. Even if the customer component has been brought up now, the order hold is still not resolved. Hence, all orders are stuck in allocated status These types of systematic holds are not automatically resolved. A user has to come and manually act on the order to remove them unless a custom routine is developed to resolve these holds. The only way to still release these orders, even if there is a hold, is by configuring the release template, but ideally it is not advisable to allow the release of orders that potentially are missing information (like taxes, charges, promotion, etc…) I have to place a ship to address order without a shipping address. Is there a way to not get hold on my order There is no configuration for this. The order line will be put on hold during order confirmation if the delivery method is ShipToAddress and the address is null. This is the default behavior, unless it is a retail order. Implementation Flavors How to prevent Orders (having Digital Goods) from getting released? When an order has lines with digital goods(Electronic Gift cards) or Delivery Method as ‘Email', then the order line is released irrespective of the Order Line Hold flag. If there is a requirement to not release these kinds of Order Line(s) then User Exit “Order:Order:UserExit:IsReleasable“ can be implemented. This user exit accepts Order object and can be checked to see if there is any Hold flag. If there is any hold at Order Line or Order level, then Is Releasable flag can be set to False, thereby preventing these lines from getting released. Once the Un Hold happens on the order, the order is then released. How to import an order with hold? When importing an order already on hold or updating an order via API to apply a hold, it is expected that: The flag "isOnHold" be set to true at the order/order line level A hold type is added on the order/order line Without a hold type, it will be difficult to resolve this particular hold without impacting other types of holds applied on the order. Hold types can be created according to the project needs.