# Order Policy

**Permalink:** order-policy
**Content Length:** 6,841 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:26.838518

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Allocation ››Order Policy Order Policy &nbsp; Order PolicyFiltersCreating an Order PolicyEditing an Order PolicyDeleting an Order Policy Order Policy enables order lines to be grouped by a combination of origin-destination pair and pre-selected aggregation attributes.&nbsp; When a supply is approved, Allocation Result Detail records are converted into order lines.&nbsp; These order lines are aggregated into order headers, grouped by distinct values in the aggregation attributes as defined in the policy. &nbsp;Order Policy also has additional criteria for auto-releasing an order, such as the minimum order quantity, the maximum number of order lines in each order, eligible source types, and the number of days to release future supply in advance.&nbsp; Each organization can have one policy&nbsp;at any given time.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Note: Order Policy is required to create and release an order.&nbsp; There&nbsp;should only be one order policy for the organization. Filters The following is the list of filters&nbsp;available on the screen: Name Creating an Order Policy To create a new order policy: Select&nbsp;Menu &gt; Allocation &gt; Order Policy Click&nbsp;Create&nbsp;to view the&nbsp;Order Policy&nbsp;window. &nbsp;On the Policy Definition and Order Capacity&nbsp;page, enter the Name as&nbsp;the unique identifier of the order&nbsp;policy. This field is not editable. Enter the&nbsp;Description of the order aggregation and splitting policy. Select any applicable supply types for&nbsp;Auto Release Order&nbsp;from the drop-down:&nbsp; &nbsp;PO &nbsp;ASN ONHAND&nbsp;(default to checked) OVERSTOCK Enter the Minimum Order Quantity to release an order.&nbsp;This attribute defines the minimum threshold value to convert an&nbsp;order into an Approved Order. Enter the Maximum Number of Order Lines in an order.&nbsp;This attribute defines the maximum number of order lines in an Approved Order. Enter the&nbsp;Number of days prior to supply available date to release orders in advance from future supplies ( Release Horizon Days) to release orders in advance&nbsp;prior to the expected supply delivery date.&nbsp; The system will check for the latest expected supply delivery date among all order lines in the order. Click Save and Continue. &nbsp;On the Aggregation Attributes page, click Add New. The Add New popup window is displayed.&nbsp; Select the required Aggregation Attribution List from the drop-down list. It lists all possible attributes for&nbsp;order aggregation and splitting.&nbsp; The&nbsp;Source and Destination Location Ids are added by default.&nbsp; Click Submit. Click Save and Finish to create a new&nbsp;order policy. Editing an Order Policy You can edit the attributes of the existing order policy records. &nbsp; Swipe-out List Select&nbsp;Menu &gt; Allocation &gt; Order Policy Select the required order policy record. Swipe-out the menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Edit. In the&nbsp;Order Policy&nbsp;window, the user can modify the required fields in the Policy&nbsp;Definition and Order Capacity and&nbsp;Aggregation Attributes pages. Click&nbsp;Save &amp; Close&nbsp;to save the modified record details. Edit View Select the required order policy card. The action buttons are displayed in the footer section. Click&nbsp;Edit&nbsp;to view the&nbsp;Order Policy&nbsp;window, the user can modify the required fields in the Policy&nbsp;Definition and Order Capacity and&nbsp;Aggregation Attributes pages. Click&nbsp;Save &amp; Close&nbsp;to save the modified&nbsp;record details. Deleting an Order Policy The order policy can be deleted by following one of the below procedures: Swipe-out List Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Order Policy Swipe-out menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts as &#39;Deletion of order policy is irreversible&#39;. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the order policy record. Delete Select the required record card. The footer section with action buttons is displayed. Select&nbsp;Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts as &#39;Deletion of order policy is irreversible&#39;. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the order policy record.