# Payment

**Permalink:** order-migration-payment
**Content Length:** 4,591 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:34:17.290946

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Processing&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Migration ››Payment Payment Previous&nbsp;I&nbsp;Next &nbsp; Rules for Migrating PaymentRelated Articles This page contains general recommendations for migrating order payments from EOM 2013 to Active Omni(AO). Rules for Migrating Payment The following table highlights the differences between 2013 returns and Active Omni (AO) payments. &nbsp; 2013 Behavior Active Omni&nbsp;Behavior Rule for Migration 1 When a prepaid order is shipped, a "prepaid settlement" discount is created on the shipment invoice to zero out the amount due. No discount is used on prepaid orders. Prepaid orders are simply represented as orders with settlement transactions (as opposed to authorizations).&nbsp; Discounts of type '70/PrepaidSettlement' should be ignored and not migrated to Active Omni. As long as the settlement record is migrated, no discount is required in Active Omni. &nbsp; Note: Customer orders for which payment has already been captured should be imported with OrderActions IsAlreadyPriced, IsAlreadyCharged, IsAlreadyTaxed, and IsImport&nbsp;set to true, along with payment methods and transactions. Orders for which payment has not been captured can be imported with&nbsp;the OrderActions IsAlreadyPriced, IsAlreadyCharged, and IsAlreadyTaxed set to false. If payment is disabled in the order config, then even though the order payload has payment details, order payment status will be set to “Not Applicable”. When importing an order that includes both appeasement and payment details, since the payment information is already present in the payload, set the SkipPaymentProcessing flag to true in OrderActions to prevent Manhattan Active® Omni from processing duplicate refunds. Related Articles Order Migration Sample JSONsArchiving Migrated OrdersTroubleshootingMigrating Quantity Level Status Returns and ExchangesOverview &nbsp;