# Orders

**Permalink:** orders
**Content Length:** 6,068 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:35:25.631552

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Customer Engagement&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order ››Orders Orders The Order page enables you to view the order status, order details, edit, cancel, allocate, hold, unhold, and release orders for the selected items. In the left quick access pane of the&nbsp;Customer Engagement&nbsp;page, click&nbsp;Orders. The&nbsp;Order List/Order Line List&nbsp;page is displayed.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; The&nbsp;Order&nbsp;List and the&nbsp;Order&nbsp;Line List tabs are provided with a Filter Panel, which enables you to filter&nbsp;order&nbsp;and&nbsp;order&nbsp;lines based on the search criteria you enter in the filter panel. Enter the search criteria such as the order number, customer first name, customer last name, phone number, email, and order status to search for the order, and perform the following actions: Click Apply to apply the search criteria entered to search for the order. Click Save as to save the filter. In the Save Filter dialog box, enter the filter name and description, and then click Save to save the filter. Click Clear to clear the search items entered. Click More to broaden the search. Select the fields from the drop-down list that you want the filter panel to contain while searching for an order. From the search result, select the check box against each order and you can perform the following actions: View order status: Click View Order Status to display the Customer Transaction page.&nbsp;You can view the details of the order such as order status, payment details, and the shipment status for the selected order/order line. View order status (Nextgen): Click View Order Status (Nextgen) to display the Call Center page. View order details: Click View Order Details to display the Order Details page.&nbsp;On the Order details page, you can view the order details such as order number, selling channel, fulfillment facility, Ship to location ID and so on. You can also allocate, release, cancel, and edit the order. Additionally, you can view the order lines associated with the orders, and can allocate, release, cancel, and&nbsp;cancel eligible quantity. Edit: Click Edit to display the Customer Order page,&nbsp;where the details of the order/order line can be modified. Cancel: Click Cancel. In the Cancel Order/Order Line window, select a reason and enter comments for canceling the order/order line. On cancellation, the order/order line is de-allocated, and inventory is rolled back. Cancel Eligible Quantity: Click Cancel Eligible Quantity in the Order Line List tab&nbsp;to display the Cancel Order Line&nbsp;window. Select the reason and enter comments for canceling the eligible quantity in the order line, and then click Done. Allocate: Click Allocate to allocate the order/order line for further processing. Hold: Click Hold. In the Hold Order/Order Line window, select a reason code and enter comments to hold the order/order line. Unhold: Click Unhold. In the Unhold Order/Order Line&nbsp;window, select the Resolve Reason and enter the comments to unhold the order. When you select the Unhold By option as “Remove Holds by Hold Type”, You need to select the Hold type along with the resolve reason and comments field. Release: Click Release to release the order/order line. Send order status: Click Send Order Status to send the order/order line&nbsp;status to the customer. Import&nbsp;Order: Click&nbsp;Import&nbsp;Order&nbsp;in the Order List tab to import bulk orders to the system through excel file upload. View&nbsp;Import&nbsp;Progress:&nbsp;Click View Import Progress in the Order List tab to view the status of orders created through bulk&nbsp;import. Note:&nbsp;When importing orders, RequestedAmount and ChargeTotal must be populated to&nbsp;increase the chances of a successful import.