# Overview

**Permalink:** orderfulfillment_overview
**Content Length:** 5,088 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:34:00.834181

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Processing&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Fulfillment ››Overview Overview Next PrioritizationAllocationReleaseOrder Events: Ship, Pick up, Short, & Status Updates When an order is created or updated in the Order component, each unit on the order enters a state transition pipeline which guides the unit through each step of the fulfillment lifecycle.&nbsp;The pipeline is used to invoke the promising and release services.&nbsp;The&nbsp;Order Orchestration Guide&nbsp;provides details on the default pipelines.&nbsp;This guide describes the processes by which order lines are prioritized, Allocated, and Released to downstream fulfillment systems. Also, this guide describes the Order updates (Pick, Pack, Ship and Short) from the Fulfillment system An order goes through below processes in an Order Fulfillment cycle Prioritization Process by which the effective rank is computed for each order line based on order and order line attributes. This effective rank is used during reallocation, de-allocation, transfer allocation and Fulfillment system when determining which order lines should be prioritized. Refer to Prioritization guide for more details. Allocation This is also called as Promising. This is the process in which the Order line is allocated to an Optimal location and supply. At the end of this process, Order line(s) are either allocated or back ordered (due to non availability of the supply). Refer to Order Allocation guide for more details. Release The&nbsp;release&nbsp;process enables the&nbsp;allocations to be&nbsp;sent to the downstream fulfillment systems&nbsp;such as Warehouse Management (WM) or store fulfillment systems, so that the order can be shipped or picked up. Refer to Order Release guide for more details. Order Events: Ship, Pick up, Short, & Status Updates Fulfillment system sends Ship, Pick up, Short and other status updates via Order Events. Order events are messages used to communicate delta updates for order fulfillment actions that occur in downstream systems. There are four&nbsp;types of order events: ship, pick up, short, and status update. These updates are sent from the execution system to notify the Order component that an order has been picked, packed, shipped, shorted, or picked up. Refer to Order Event guide for more details.