# Order Split

**Permalink:** order-split
**Content Length:** 17,707 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:00.230725

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process &amp; Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Build ››Order Split &nbsp;Order Split &nbsp;I&nbsp;Next &nbsp; OverviewTypes of Order SplitUse CasesProcess flowConfigurationHow to configure Order Split?Implementation FlavorsUIs and EntitiesTroubleshootingRelated Articles Overview Order Split is a process that automatically divides a suggested order into multiple purchase orders (POs) based on predefined constraints such as truck size, supplier requirements, or warehouse capacity. Instead of generating a single large PO, the system creates smaller, optimized POs to align with these constraints, ensuring efficient logistics and compliance. Users can configure supplier-specific requirements before approving orders, and once the Order Split policy is set, it is applied automatically during order approvals. This streamlines operations, reduces manual effort, and enhances order fulfillment efficiency. Order split is crucial for managing order fulfillment efficiently. It allows businesses to align their orders with logistical and supplier-specific rules. This means better truck loading, adherence to supplier quantity limits, and optimized delivery scheduling. Types of Order Split Requirement Split -&nbsp;Creates the minimum number of&nbsp;split&nbsp;orders that meet the requirements and replenishes all SKUs as evenly as possible. When you use a Requirement&nbsp;split, SCP can put each SKU on each PO it creates. In case of an order split&nbsp;at&nbsp;order&nbsp;group level, each PO created for a member relationship can have each SKU from that member relationship. Line Split - Creates each PO by aggregating the&nbsp;order&nbsp;lines until the&nbsp;order&nbsp;is within the&nbsp;order&nbsp;size constraints. When you use the Line&nbsp;split,&nbsp; SCP does not distribute the SKUs on multiple POs. Use Cases Splitting a large order into smaller shipments that fit on available trucks. Adhering to supplier requirements for minimum or maximum order quantities. Prioritizing items based on their service requirements by distributing them across multiple POs. &nbsp; Process flow &nbsp; The real-time replenishment process begins with a trigger based on forecast or supply changes, initiating the calculation of the Suggested Order Quantity (SOQ) by the SOQ Engine. This SOQ then informs the creation of an order, subject to bracketing based on pre-configured minimum and maximum order limits. A critical step is the Order Split process, which optimizes order fulfillment by dividing orders based on various attributes such as time-phased delivery, capacity constraints, order round-up points, and minimum/maximum order sizes. This process can create multiple Purchase Orders (POs) and is governed by configurable split types, including Requirement Order Split and Line Order Split, and leverages existing logic and potential allocation flows. Orders proceed through an approval process that includes an automated check, and if manual review is required, users can modify quantities, recompute the split, or override PO line quantities. The final result is the generation of retail and purchase orders, potentially utilizing an external split engine, with exceptions raised if orders do not meet specific thresholds during the splitting process. The 'Review & Approve Orders'&nbsp;process finalizes generated orders. If auto-approval is enabled, orders are automatically split and processed. Otherwise, orders are reviewed and potentially modified by a user, who can adjust quantities or override PO line items. After review and approval (automatic or manual), orders are split, updating the order lines, with exceptions raised for orders that don't meet thresholds. Configuration How to configure Order Split? The configuration allows for specifying how orders should be split based on different requirements. You can set minimum and maximum order sizes, time-phased delivery, and other split-specific criteria. &nbsp; Order Split- Sourcing Relationship {{url}}/itemlocation/api/itemlocation/sourcingRelationship/bulkImport &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;{ &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&quot;SourceLocationId&quot;: &quot;DC1&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&quot;LocationId&quot;: &quot;Store2&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&quot;SubGroup&quot;:&quot;Frozen&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&quot;PerformOrderSplit&quot;: true, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&quot;OrderSplitType&quot;: &quot;Requirement&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;MinimumSplitOrderTotal&quot;: 1000.0, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;MinimumSplitOrderTotalUOM&quot;: &quot;EA&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;MaximumSplitOrderTotal1&quot;: 250, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;MaximumSplitOrderTotalUOM1&quot;: &quot;EA&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;MaximumSplitOrderTotal2&quot;: null, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;MaximumSplitOrderTotalUOM2&quot;: null, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;MaximumSplitOrderTotal3&quot;: null, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;MaximumSplitOrderTotalUOM3&quot;: null, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;BuildToMax&quot;: true, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;OrderRoundUpPoint&quot;: 50.0, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;TimePhasedDelivery&quot;: true &nbsp; } &nbsp; Critical Attributes: Perform Order Split: Enables or disables order splitting. Order Split Type: Determines how the order will be split (Requirement,&nbsp;and Line) Minimum Total Order: The minimum combined size for all split orders. Maximum Per PO: The maximum size for an individual PO. Time Phased Delivery: Determines delivery dates for POs. Build to Max Capacity: Rounds the total order up if it does not meet the maximum size. Order Round Up Point The percentage threshold that determines when a resulting partial order is rounded up to the maximum order constraint. &nbsp; Implementation Flavors N/A UIs and Entities The following table lists the User Interfaces and Entities related to the Order Split feature. UI Name Component Group Seed Data Present? Seed Data Profile Sourcing Relationship Item Location &nbsp; No No Suggested Orders UI &nbsp; No No &nbsp; Troubleshooting NA &nbsp; Related Articles Order DueOrder BuildOrder ProjectionsPO/ASN ETA based Order ProjectionsOrder Review and ApprovalNotesOrder Refresh ProcessChange SupplierSub GroupsOrder ExceptionsAutomatically Release Orders