# Tax Adjustment

**Permalink:** order-migration-tax-adjustment
**Content Length:** 17,994 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:34:02.232183

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Processing&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Fulfillment ››Tax Adjustment Tax Adjustment Previous&nbsp;I&nbsp;Next &nbsp; How Tax Adjustments Work in EOM 2013How Tax Adjustments Work in Active OmniSample Migration MappingsRelated Articles The way that Active Omni (AO) handles scenarios when quotation tax and invoice tax are not equal differs from the behavior in EOM 2013. This page gives an overview of how each version works and recommends how to migrate orders with tax adjustments from EOM 2013 to Active Omni. How Tax Adjustments Work in EOM 2013 In EOM 2013, if the quotation tax is less than invoice tax, then a discount record is used to reduce the order total by the tax delta, so that the customer is charged what they were originally quoted. For details on the general behavior in EOM 2013, see the Tax Adjustments overview and examples here. Note this page is for EOM 2013, but the general tax adjustment behavior is the same. For example: Event Order Invoice Order is placed; Customer is quoted $5.00 in tax Tax Detail = 5.00 &nbsp; When the item ships, tax is calculated as $6.00 Tax Detail = 5.00 Tax Detail = 6.00 Order tax is adjusted to match invoice tax&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; Tax Detail = 5.00 Adjustment Tax Detail = 1.00 Tax Detail = 6.00 Order discount is applied so that customer is only charged $5.00 Adjustment Tax Discount = -1.00 Adjustment Tax Discount = -1.00 Finally, the order total = invoice total = $5.00 &nbsp; &nbsp; Tax adjustment discounts are only applied for fully completed orders in 2013. See examples below for migration of completed and partially completed orders. How Tax Adjustments Work in Active Omni In Active Omni, if quotation tax is less than invoice tax, then an informational field on the invoice tax detail is used to record the invoice tax amount, but the invoice tax amount that the customer is actually charged is pulled from the customer order. No discount records are created to accomplish this. For details and examples of tax adjustments in Active Omni, see&nbsp;the Tax guide. For example: Event Order Invoice Order is placed; Customer is quoted $5.00 in tax Tax Detail = 5.00 &nbsp; When the item ships, tax is calculated as $6.00 Tax Detail = 5.00 Tax Detail Recorded Tax Amount = 6.00 (informational record, not used for calculations) Tax Detail Tax Amount = 5.00 Finally, the order total = invoice total = $5.00 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Sample Migration Mappings Scenario 1: Estimated tax is equal to invoice tax In this example, tax was quoted at $5 (3 + 1 + 1) and invoiced at $5 (3 + 1 + 1). No adjustments required. EOM 2013 Order Active Omni&nbsp;Order Migration Notes Order Order Line Tax Detail: Texas, State, 3.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, County, 1.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, City, 1.00 Invoice Invoice Line Tax Detail: Texas, State, 3.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, County, 1.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, City, 1.00 Order Order Line Tax Detail: Texas, State, 3.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, County, 1.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, City, 1.00 Invoice Invoice Line Tax Detail: Texas, State, 3.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, County, 1.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, City, 1.00 Migrate tax details as-is; no special logic required. Scenario 2: Estimated tax is less than invoice tax for a completed order In this example, tax was quoted at $5 (3 + 1 + 1) and invoiced at $6 (4 + 1 + 1). An adjustment tax detail for +$1.00 is created on the order to balance the invoice and order tax, and a $1.00 discount is applied to the invoice and the order to ensure the customer is charged only $5. EOM 2013 Order Active Omni&nbsp;Order Migration Notes Order Tax Adjustment Discount: 1.00&nbsp; Order Line Tax Detail: Texas, State, 3.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, County, 1.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, City, 1.00 Tax Detail: Texas, State, Adjustment, 1.00 Invoice Tax Adjustment Discount: 1.00&nbsp; Invoice Line Tax Detail: Texas, State, 4.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, County, 1.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, City, 1.00 Order Order Line Tax Detail: Texas, State, 3.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, County, 1.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, City, 1.00 Invoice Invoice Line Tax Detail: Texas, State, 3.00 Recorded tax amount: 4.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, County, 1.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, City, 1.00 No tax discounts are created in Active Omni. No adjustment tax details are saved on the Active Omni order. The tax detail for which the adjustment was made is saved on the invoice with two values: Recorded tax amount = 4.00 (invoice tax amount from 2013) Tax amount = 3.00 (quotation tax amount from 2013) Note: On all other tax details, the recorded tax amount and tax amounts are equal. &nbsp; Scenario 3: Estimated tax is greater than invoice tax for a completed order In this example, tax was quoted at $5 (3 + 1 + 1) and invoiced at $4 (2 + 1 + 1). An adjustment tax detail for -$1.00 is created on the order to balance the invoice and order tax, and the customer is charged $4.00. EOM 2013 Order Active Omni&nbsp;Order Migration Notes Order Order Line Tax Detail: Texas, State, 3.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, County, 1.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, City, 1.00 Tax Detail: Texas, State, Adjustment, -1.00 Invoice Invoice Line Tax Detail: Texas, State, 4.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, County, 1.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, City, 1.00 Order Order Line Tax Detail: Texas, State, 3.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, County, 1.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, City, 1.00 Tax Detail: Texas, State, Adjustment, -1.00 Invoice Invoice Line Tax Detail: Texas, State, 3.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, County, 1.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, City, 1.00 The tax details are migrated as-is, including the adjustment tax detail created on the order. Scenario 4: Estimated tax is less than invoice tax for a partially completed order In this example, tax was quoted at $5 (3 + 1 + 1) and invoiced at $6 (4 + 1 + 1). An adjustment tax detail for +$1.00 is created on the order to balance the invoice and order tax, but no discounts are created in EOM 2013 because the order is not yet completely shipped. EOM 2013 Order Active Omni&nbsp;Order Migration Notes Order Order Line 1 (Shipped) Tax Detail: Texas, State, 3.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, County, 1.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, City, 1.00 Tax Detail: Texas, State, Adjustment, 1.00 Order Line 2 (Allocation Failed) Tax Detail: Texas, State, 6.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, County, 2.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, City, 2.00 Invoice Invoice Line - Order Line 1 Tax Detail: Texas, State, 4.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, County, 1.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, City, 1.00 Order Order Line 1 Tax Detail: Texas, State, 3.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, County, 1.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, City, 1.00 Order Line 2 Tax Detail: Texas, State, 6.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, County, 2.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, City, 2.00 &nbsp;Invoice Invoice Line - Order Line 1 Tax Detail: Texas, State, 3.00 Recorded tax amount: 4.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, County, 1.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, City, 1.00 No tax discounts are created in Active Omni. No adjustment tax details are saved on the Active Omni order. The tax detail for which the adjustment was made is saved on the invoice with two values: Recorded tax amount = 4.00 (invoice tax amount from 2013) Tax amount = 3.00 (quotation tax amount from 2013) &nbsp; Scenario 5: Estimated tax is greater than invoice tax for a partially completed order In this example, tax was quoted at $5 (3 + 1 + 1) and invoiced at $4 (2 + 1 + 1). An adjustment tax detail for -$1.00 is created on the order to balance the invoice and order tax. EOM 2013 Order Active Omni&nbsp;Order Migration Notes Order Order Line 1 (Shipped) Tax Detail: Texas, State, 3.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, County, 1.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, City, 1.00 Tax Detail: Texas, State, Adjustment, -1.00 Order Line 2 (Allocation Failed) Tax Detail: Texas, State, 6.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, County, 2.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, City, 2.00 Invoice Invoice Line - Order Line 1 Tax Detail: Texas, State, 4.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, County, 1.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, City, 1.00 Order Order Line Tax Detail: Texas, State, 3.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, County, 1.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, City, 1.00 Tax Detail: Texas, State, Adjustment, -1.00 Order Line 2 Tax Detail: Texas, State, 6.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, County, 2.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, City, 2.00 Invoice Invoice Line Tax Detail: Texas, State, 3.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, County, 1.00 Tax Detail: Dallas, City, 1.00 The tax details are migrated as-is, including the adjustment tax detail created on the order. &nbsp; Related Articles OverviewLate Order Modifications