# Order Processing UI Resources

**Permalink:** order-processing-ui-resources
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Order Management/Process & Configuration Guides/Order Processing/UI Resources
**Content Length:** 30,831 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:58:20.271274

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Order Management››Process & Configuration Guides››Order Processing ››Order Processing UI Resources UI Resources - Order Processing This page lists the grants details for each of the screens and resources. Order ListOrder Line ListPayment TransactionOrder Details Order Configuration AdditionalOrder SummaryManage Order Configuration UIOrder Subscription and Manage Order Subscription UIOther Grants Required to View Data Specific to OrganizationsB2B Order List and Order Details Note: Exclusion of specific resources within the grant’s domain is currently not supported by Manhattan Active® Omnifacade UI. Order List Location Action Resource(s) Comments Order List/Order Line List screen Access the screen omnifacade::order::order::read This is the omnifacade Order List screen. Can be accessed from the following: Omnifacade home screen CSR Home page Orders icon Order List/Order Line List screen Click the ORDER LIST link - Navigates you to the Order List screen Order List/Order Line List screen Click the ORDER LINE LIST link - Navigates you to the Order Line List screen Filter Panel Click the SAVED FILTER  Icon - Displays the saved filters list on the left side of the screen Filter Panel Click the SAVE AS button omnifacade::order::save-filter Allows you to save the filter Action button bar Click the VIEW ORDER STATUS button omnifacade::order::view-order-status Navigates you to the Order Status page on the customer engagement facade for the selected order Action button bar Click the VIEW ORDER DETAILS button omnifacade::order::view-order-details Displays the order details pop-up window for the selected order Action button bar Click the EDIT button omnifacade::order::order-list-edit Navigates you to edit order page on the customer engagement facade for the selected order Action button bar Click the CANCEL button omnifacade::order::order-list-cancel Displays the cancel order pop-up based on several conditions. The behavior is also impacted by mod type (Order::Cancel) Action button bar Click the ALLOCATE button omnifacade::order::order-list-allocate Sends the order for the allocation process. Corresponding configurations should exist in the system for the order to allocate. Action button bar Click the HOLD button omnifacade::order::order-list-hold Displays the hold order pop-up window to hold the order. The behavior is also impacted by mod type (Order::Hold::Apply) Action button bar Click the UNHOLD button omnifacade::order::order-list-unhold Displays the unhold order pop-up to unhold the order. The behavior is also impacted by mod type (Order::Hold::Resolve) Action button bar Click the RELEASE button omnifacade::order::order-list-release Sends the order for release process Action button bar Click the SEND ORDER STATUS button omnifacade::order::send-order-status Sends the order for publishing the order status Action button bar Click the IMPORT ORDER button omnifacade::order::import-bulk-orders Displays pop-up window to browse files of order json to import Action button bar Click the VIEW IMPORT PROGRESS button omnifacade::order::view-import-progress Displays pop-up that shows imported order progress Action button bar Click the Allocate All button omnifacade::order::allocate-all-orders Sends the search query for mass allocation Action button bar Click the Release All button omnifacade::order::release-all-orders Sends the search query for mass release Order Line List Location Action Resource(s) Comments Order List/Order Line List screen Access the screen omnifacade::order::order::read This is the omnifacade Order Line List screen. Filter Panel Click the SAVE AS button omnifacade::orderline::save-filter Allows you to save the filter Action button bar Click the VIEW ORDER STATUS button omnifacade::order::orderline::view-order-status Navigates you to the Order Status page on the customer engagement facade for the selected order Action button bar Click the VIEW ORDER DETAILS button omnifacade::order::orderline::view-order-details Displays order details pop-up for the selected order Action button bar Click the EDIT button omnifacade::order::orderline::order-line-list-edit Navigates you to edit order page on the customer engagement facade for the selected order Action button bar Click the CANCEL button omnifacade::order::orderline::order-line-list-cancel Navigates you to cancel order pop-up based on several conditions. The behavior of this button also depends on mod type (OrderLine::Cancel Line and OrderLine::Cancel Line - Customer or Cancel Line - System depending on the reason code associated with the cancelation). Action button bar Click the CANCEL ELIGIBLE QUANTITY button omnifacade::order::orderline::order-line-list-cancel Displays pop-up window to cancel eligible quantity Action button bar Click the ALLOCATE button omnifacade::order::orderline::order-line-list-allocate Sends the order for the allocation process. Corresponding configuration should exist in the system for the order to allocate. Action button bar Click the HOLD button omnifacade::order::orderline::order-line-list-hold Displays the hold order line pop-up to hold the order line. The behavior is also impacted by mod type (OrderLine::Hold::Applied) Action button bar Click the UNHOLD button omnifacade::order::orderline::order-line-list-unhold Displays the unhold order line pop-up to unhold the order line. The behavior is also impacted by mod type (OrderLine::Hold::Resolved) Action button bar Click the RELEASE button omnifacade::order::orderline::order-line-list-release Sends the order for the release process. Action button bar Click the SEND ORDER LINE STATUS button omnifacade::order::orderline::send-order-line-status Sends the order for publishing the order status Payment Transaction Location Action Resource(s) Comments Manage Payment Transactions screen Access the screen omnifacade::order::order::read This is the omnifacade payment transaction screen. Can be accessed from Omnifacade home screen Filter Panel Click the SAVE AS button omnifacade::paymenttransaction::save-filter Allows you to save the filter Payment transaction list table Click the Payment Transaction ID - Displays the bar on the right side of the screen with payment transaction details. The Edit button allows you to modify the editable fields The collapse icon helps you to collapse the payment transaction details bar. Payment Transactions UI Main Menu > Payment Transactions omnifacade::order::order::read omnifacade::payment::paymenttransaction::admin Read only access to Payment Transactions UI (Manage Payment Transactions screen) Payment Transactions UI Main Menu > Payment Transactions omnifacade::payment::paymentheader::paymentmethod::paymenttransaction::edit Enables the Edit Button in the Payment Transactions UI (Displayed in the popup when clicked on any of the listed transactions) Order Details Location Action Resource(s) Comments CANCEL button on the view order details page Click the CANCEL button omnifacade::order::orderline::order-detail-line-cancel Navigates you to cancel order pop-up based on several conditions. The behavior of this button also depends on mod type (OrderLine::Cancel Line and OrderLine::Cancel Line - Customer or Cancel Line - System depending on the reason code associated with the cancelation). CANCEL ELIGIBLE QUANTITY button on the view order details page Click the CANCEL ELIGIBLE QUANTITY button omnifacade::order::orderline::order-detail-line-cancel Navigates you to cancel order pop-up based on several conditions. The behavior of this button also depends on mod type (OrderLine::Cancel Line and OrderLine::Cancel Line - Customer or Cancel Line - System depending on the reason code associated with the cancelation). Order Configuration Additional Location Action Resource(s) Comments Order Configuration Additional screen Access the screen omui::order::menu::OrderConfigurationAdditional Enables you to access the omnifacade Order Configuration Additional screen. Order Summary Location Action Resource(s) Comments Order Summary screen Access the screen omui-facade::config::admin omui-facade::config::read omui-facade::transaction::read api::order::transaction::admin omui::order::menu::OrderSummary Enables you to access the omnifacade Order Summary screen. Manage Order Configuration UI Location Action Resource(s) Comments Hold Type UI Main Menu > Hold Type omnifacade::order::holdtype::read Enables you to access the omnifacade Hold Type screen. Order Parameters MUP UI Main Menu > Order Parameters sceui::order::orderparameters::create Enables you to access the Order Parameters screen. Order Subscription and Manage Order Subscription UI Location Action Resource(s) Comments OrderSubscriptionDashboard Main Menu > OrderSubscriptionDashboard omnifacade::order::ordersubscriptiondashboard::read Enables you to access the order dashboard screen. Manage subscription data link on top right corner of OrderSubscriptionDashboard Manage subscription data MUP UI Main Menu > OrderSubscriptionDashboard masterdatafacade::order::expectedyearlyordersubscription::read Enables you to access the order dashboard screen. Create Main Menu > OrderSubscriptionDashboard > Create omui::order::expectedyearlyordersubscription::create Enables you to create records in the order subscription dashboard screen. Edit Main Menu > OrderSubscriptionDashboard > Edit omui::order::expectedyearlyordersubscription::edit Enables you to edit records in the order subscription dashboard screen. Delete Main Menu > OrderSubscriptionDashboard > Delete omui::order::expectedyearlyordersubscription::delete Enables you to delete records in the order subscription dashboard screen. Other Grants Required to View Data Specific to Organizations Resource(s) Comments organization::grant::read This resource is a core service, which includes the ability to get grant by Role Id & Resource Id, the ability to get grant by primary key, and ability to export the grant. organization::locales::read This resource is a core service, which includes the ability to get locales by Locales Id , ability to get locales by primary key, and ability to export the locales. This particular service is used to export the locales. organization::location::read This resource includes the ability to search, get location, get location by Location Id, ability to get location by primary key, and ability to export the location. This service is to get the location. "organization::organization::read-getlistoforgsforuser This resource is a core service, which includes the ability to search for an organization, ability to get the organization, ability to get a list of organizations for the user, ability to get organization by organizationId and ability to export the organization. This particular service is used to get a list of organizations. organization::provisioningprofile::allprovisioningprofiles::read-getbyorganizationid This resource includes the ability to search, get Provisioning Profile, get Provisioning Profile by provisioningProfileId, ability to get Provisioning Profile by primary key, and ability to export the Provisioning Profile. This service allows the API to fetch all provisioning profiles defined for a particular organization. B2B Order List and Order Details Location Action Resource(s) Comments Order List/Order Line List screen Access the screen omui::omui-facade::menu::B2BOrders This is the MUP Order List and Order Details screens. Can be accessed from the following: Omnifacade home screen MUP home screen Order List/Order Line List Mass Actions Order Allocate Order Release Order Cancel Order Hold Order Unhold Order Line Allocate Order Line Release Order Line Cancel omui::order::order::unhold omui::order::order::allocate omui::order::order::release omui::order::order::hold omui::order::order::cancel omui::order::order::allocateLine omui::order::order::releaseLine omui::order::order::cancelLine These resources allow individual order or multiple order and individual line or multiple line action.