# Order Refresh Process

**Permalink:** order-refresh-process
**Content Length:** 20,633 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:02.234772

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process &amp; Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Build ››Order Refresh Process Order Refresh Process &nbsp; Previous&nbsp;I&nbsp;Next OverviewProcess FlowOrder Refresh Process – Scheduling & ExecutionConfigurationConfiguring&nbsp;using APIConfiguring&nbsp;using UIImplementation FlavorsServicesTroubleshootingRelated Articles Overview &nbsp; The Order Refresh Process is a daily automated task that calculates Suggested Orders for all active item locations across valid relationships after the Calendar Business Date changes. While the Manhattan Active Supply Chain Planning System can compute Suggested Order Quantities (SOQs) in real-time based on inventory and forecast changes, certain updates may not trigger immediate recalculations. To prevent outdated SOQs, the system ensures they are refreshed daily. This process incorporates all configuration updates, including changes to: Policies Items and locations Item-location mappings Relationships Order groups and subgroups Lifecycle status (e.g., active to discontinued/inactive and vice versa) Currently, these configuration changes do not trigger real-time SOQ recalculations. Instead, they take effect during the next scheduled SOQ computation or order build when a real-time trigger occurs. Additionally, any orders in the 'Review in Progress'&nbsp;state will be reset to the 'Suggested'&nbsp;state with the latest SOQ as part of this process. &nbsp; Process Flow Order Refresh Process – Scheduling & Execution The Order Refresh Process must be scheduled to run after the Calendar Business Date change job. Prerequisites for Optimal Performance: Ensure Inventory Sync updates and Interface configuration uploads are completed before this process runs. On a Period Roll day, schedule the Order Refresh Process after the Forecast Update Process to incorporate the latest forecast. This may require a different schedule from the daily run. Process Overview: This process re-evaluates replenishment needs for all item locations across sourcing relationships and order groups daily. If a Suggested Order is due and eligible for Auto Release, the system will generate and release the order automatically, provided every line is recalculated with a latest SOQ. If an Auto Release-eligible order becomes due after this process runs, it will likely be released in the next Order Build run, triggered by real-time updates. If a Suggested Order is due but not eligible for Auto Release, it will be marked as a "Regular Order", requiring manual review and approval. Order Status Updates: At the start of the process, the Suggested Order status changes to “Auto Recalculation In Progress.” Any Suggested Orders that were in Review - “Review in Progress” will also be reset. If any Suggested Order is in the middle of Order Release or Bracket Building, the system will allow those processes to be completed first before allowing the corresponding sourcing relationships to be processed in the Order Refresh job. Upon successful completion, the status is reset to “Suggested” for each sourcing relationship. If any failures occur, orders will remain in “Auto Recalculation In Progress.” Users must check for order-level or line-level errors, resolve them, and manually recalculate the order. Configuration Users can schedule the Order Refresh job using the template below based on the business needs. Configuring&nbsp;using API &nbsp; Order Refresh Process POST: {{url}}/ai-inventoryoptimization/api/batch/jobSchedule/save { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;JobScheduleId&quot;: &quot;OrderRefreshScheduledJob&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;JobTypeId&quot;: &quot;OrderRefreshJob&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;CronExpression&quot;: &quot;0 0 0 ? * * *&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;IsDisabled&quot;: &quot;false&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;TriggerKey&quot;: &quot;OrderRefreshJobDailyJobTrigger&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;JobParameters&quot;: [ &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;InputKey&quot;: &quot;ExecutionType&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;InputValue&quot;: &quot;Default&quot; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; } &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; ] } &nbsp; Configuring&nbsp;using UI Navigate to Menu → Proactive → Job Schedules. Select “AI-INVENTORYOPTIMIZATION” on the first filter. &nbsp; Inventory Optimization &nbsp; Click “Create New Job Schedule” and follow the steps below to configure Order Refresh Job. Here is an example of a Daily - Weekday schedule. &nbsp; Daily Weekday &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Here is an example of the Weekend - Period Roll Day Schedule: &nbsp; Weekend - Period Roll Day Schedule: &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Implementation Flavors Users can have multiple schedules for the Order Refresh job for different days of the week. For example, the weekend schedule may run at a different time depending on the forecast update. &nbsp; Services The&nbsp;APIs listed in the following table are referenced in this document. Refer to the API documentation for additional details on&nbsp;each service. &nbsp; Service &nbsp; Component &nbsp; Group &nbsp; Service Endpoint &nbsp; ai-inventoryoptimization/suggestedOrder/recalculate ai-inventoryoptimization inventoryoptimization {{url}}/ai-inventoryoptimization/api/ai-inventoryoptimization/suggestedOrder/recalculate &nbsp; Troubleshooting &nbsp; Scheduled Job doesn’t run Check the CRON expression Check if the Scheduler Component is Initialized. If not use the below API to initialize POST: {{url}}/scheduler/api/scheduler/setup/orgId/{{OrgId}} How to verify the Order Refresh Process ? Check the “Inventory Console” UI, the “Orders Due Today” chart for Regular due Orders, Orders due to Service checks, Orders that failed Auto Release etc. Check if there are any Orders in “Auto Recalculation in Progress” status in “Suggested Order UI”. Validate&nbsp;line level or order level errors. If&nbsp;errors are due to user - managed configurations, try to resolve and execute the “Recalculate” action from the Suggested Order UI. View any Item-Location in the “Item Location Analysis UI” and validate if the “Last Process Time” refers to current business date. &nbsp; Related Articles SOQ Computation Order Build Order Auto Approval and Release&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;