# Order Point Adjustment

**Permalink:** order-point-adjustment
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning/Process &amp; Configuration Guides/Replenishment/Factors affecting SOQ/Order Point Adjustment
**Content Length:** 31,065 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:08:08.996297

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning››Process & Configuration Guides››Replenishment››Factors affecting SOQ ››Order Point Adjustment Order Point Adjustment Previous I Next OverviewProcess FlowConfigurationHow to configure Static Order Point AdjustmentHow to configure Time Phased Order Point AdjustmentImplementation FlavorsUIs and EntitiesServicesTroubleshootingWhy Certain Time Phased OPAs are not considered for SOQ calculation?Related Articles Overview The Order Point Adjustment (OPA) provides a way to add extra days of inventory to the Item. It adjusts the order point by adding extra days of inventory equal to the number of days specified in Order Point Adjustment. This option is used to inflate the inventory being carried for a specific period of time. There are two ways of providing order point adjustment. Static Order Point Adjustment: It allows users to add extra days of inventory for the current day and can be configured at Item Location level Time Phased Order Point Adjustment: Time phased OPA provides a way to specify the Order Point adjustment for a future date range (at Item Location Level) Process Flow Order Point Adjustment Setup: Static Order Point Adjustment and Time Phased Order Point Adjustment can be configured at Item Location Level. Static OPA (Days) Time Phased OPA (OPA 1) Time Phased OPA (OPA 2) Time Phased OPA (OPA 3) 2 days Applicable each day until manually removed Begin Date: 20/10/2023 End Date: 21/10/2023 Quantity: 40 Days Indicator: False Begin Date: 21/10/2023 End Date: 22/10/2023 Quantity: 8 Days Indicator: true Begin Date: 25/10/2023 End Date: 30/10/2023 Quantity: 6 Days Indicator: true Compute SOQ using OPA: Fetch OPA's applicable for the period Based on the current business date, fetch the applicable time phased and static order point adjustments applicable for the date. If multiple Order Point Adjustment records exist for the same day, i.e if there are multiple OPA records with overlapping dates then the Order Point adjustment will be the sum of all the OPA records for the particular day. OPA (Days) is converted to units (Units to days Conversion = Number of days X Daily Average Forecast). Below is an illustration of OPA, blank fields indicate the particular OPA is not active. Type OPA (Days, Units) Units (Days to units) 20/10/23 21/10/23 22/10/23 23/10/23 Applicable OPAs * Static Time Phased (OPA1) Static Time Phased (OPA1) Time Phased (OPA2) Static Time Phased (OPA1) Time Phased (OPA2) Only Static Static 2 (Days) 20 20 20 20 20 Time Phased (OPA1) 40 (Units) 40 40 40 40 Time Phased (OPA2) 8 (Days) 80 80 80 Time Phased (OPA3) 6 (Days) 60 Total OPA  for each day 60 140 140 20 *OPA3 will not be applicable as it does not fall within the date range Compute Order Factors: The Order Point and Order Upto Level will be adjusted by the same number of Days Of Supply/Units as specified in the Order Point Adjustment for each day within the date range. Order Point = Next Lead Time + Review Cycle + OPA Order up to Level (OUTL) = Safety Stock + Next Lead Time + Max(Review Cycle,Joint Order Cycle,Economic Order Cycle) + OPA ROQ and SOQ (with OPA) will be calculated as below Static+OPA1 Static+OPA1+OPA2 Static+OPA1+OPA2 Static Without OPA 20/10/23 21/10/23 22/10/23 10/23/2023 Weekly Forecast (units) 70 70 70 70 70 Daily Average (units) 10 10 10 10 10 Safety Stock (units) 50 50 50 50 50 Next Lead Time (units) 20 20 20 20 20 Review Cycle (units) 70 70 70 70 70 Order Point Adjustment (units) 0 60 140 140 20 Order Point (units) 140 200 280 280 160 Order Upto Level (units) 140 200 280 280 160 Inventory Position (units) 20 20 20 20 20 ROQ (units) 120 180 260 260 140 SOQ (units) 120 180 260 260 140 Order Point = Safety Stock + Next Lead Time + Review Cycle + OPA ROQ = Order Point - Inventory Position Configuration How to configure Static Order Point Adjustment Static Order Point Adjustment can be configured at Item location Level. This is setup as number of days of supply and can take values between -999 and 999 (default = 0) {{url}}/itemlocation/api/itemlocation/itemLocation/save { "ItemId": "Airpods", "LifeCycleStatus": "ACTIVE", "Active": "true", "LocationId": "Store1", "OrderPointAdjustmentDays": "10" } How to configure Time Phased Order Point Adjustment Time Phased Order Point Adjustment can be configured at Item location Level. This is setup as number of days or number of units. {{url}}/itemlocation/api/itemlocation/orderPointAdjustment/save { "ItemId": "Item1", "LocationId": "Store1", "Description": "OPA2", "Quantity": 8, "DaysIndicator": true, "BeginDate": "2020-10-21", "EndDate": "2023-10-22", "AdjustmentReasonType": "RFOUTSK" } *Adjustment Reason Type* RFOUTSK - Re-fill supply after an out of stock timeframe process FLSIM - Front load simulation Implementation Flavors NA UIs and Entities The configuration UIs mentioned in this document are listed in the following table, along with information to navigate to the API documentation. UI Name Component Group Seed Data Present? Seed Data Profile Services The APIs listed in the following table are referenced in this document. Refer to the API documentation for additional details on each service. Feature Service Component Group Service Endpoint Time Phased OPA Order Point Adjustment Item Location {{url}}/itemlocation/api/itemlocation/orderPointAdjustment/save Static OPA Item Location Item Location {{url}}/itemlocation/api/itemlocation/itemLocation/save Troubleshooting Why Certain Time Phased OPAs are not considered for SOQ calculation? OPA will not be considered during the date range when the Item Location is set to "Deactivate on Date" or "Deactivate Until Date". An order point adjustment will not be allowed to exceed a maximum storage space or maximum shelf life quantity. When a display minimum is in use and an order point adjustment is put into effect, the greater of the two will be used when calculating the SOQ. If the Item Location is participating in a Forward Buy for a particular Day/Date, the Order Point of the Item location will NOT be adjusted even though Order Point Adjustment records exist for it and are effective for that particular Day/Date. If order point adjustment is added to a consolidated Item Location or relationship, the extra days of supply are NOT added to the associated flow-through Item Location. Order point adjustment needs to added to each flow-through SKU or relationship. Related Articles Committed QuantityConvenience PackPlanned DemandMinimum Purchase QuantityReview CycleManual Minimum Manual MaximumLead TimeBuying MultipleOrder Pack Optimization