# Overstock Transfers

**Permalink:** overstock-transfers
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning/Process &amp; Configuration Guides/Allocation/Inventory/Overstock Transfers
**Content Length:** 23,120 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:08:36.400963

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning››Process & Configuration Guides››Allocation››Inventory ››Overstock Transfers Overstock Transfers Previous I OverviewProcess FlowInventory Update for store:Overstock Computation: Transfer EvaluationTransfer ProcessingAutomatic Transfers Evaluation (Recalculation): Scheduled Job: Manual Transfers Process:Allocation Review and ApprovalConfigurationsImplementation FlavorsUIs and EntitiesRelated Articles Overview Once inventory is allocated to the stores for a new season, it may be sold at different velocity at each store. Inventory can be rebalanced between stores to optimize it both during in -season and end -of- season phases. The system will suggest inventory to be transferred from store to store when one store has overstock and another has a need for the same item. Transfers will only be suggested when they are economically beneficial and when movement of inventory is minimal. Once the system has suggested transfer allocations, allocators can then review the transfer allocations similar to DC allocations and then submit the transfer allocations for approval. Process Flow The overstock transfer process comprises of the following three sub-processes: 1. Overstock Computation: Overstock quantity is computed for the stores carrying extra inventory. 2. Transfers Evaluation: Transfer quantity to be allocated is computed for the eligible destination stores. This process is similar to the suggested allocation quantity (SAQ) computation process. 3. Transfers Processing: Transfers are processed as per the user-configured triggers (auto, manual or scheduled job). This process is similar to how allocations are triggered. Inventory Update for store: The inventory management system will notify allocation whenever there is an inventory update for a store. On receiving this notification, the system will compute overstock for the store when the necessary conditions mentioned below are met. Overstock Computation: On receiving the inventory update notification from the inventory system, the allocation system will compute overstock for the store when the following conditions are met. When the configuration parameter (OverstockSupplyNotificationEnabled) is set to true. 'Allow transfer Out' attribute for the source location is set to yes. The store is either in the in-season or end of season phase for the item. When the current business date is greater than the user configured days after the start of the in-season phase for the item location. Overstock quantity is computed as follows: Overstock Quantity = max([On Hand – (Need + X days of supply)], 0) The 'Need' is fetched from the allocation product location entity for the respective item-location. The 'X' days is configured in the transfer parameters in the Allocation Policy. The KPI cumulative demand vector is used to get units for x days of supply. Examples : Current Business Date : 15th Jan Wait for 10 days after the in-season start date to suggest transfers. Inseason start date On Hand Need Xdays of Supply Overstock Quantity Comment Store 1 1st Jan 100 50 20 30 Store 2 1st Jan 100 70 50 0 Overstock is not created Store 3 1st Jan 50 10 30 10 Store 4 20th Jan 100 40 Overstock is not computed as the store is pre-season phase. Store 5 10th Jan Overstock is not computed as the current business date is less than configured days after the start of inseason date Overstock supplies created after overstock computation Overstock Supply Store 1 30 units Store 2 Overstock is not created Store 3 10 units Note : a) Overstock supplies are always loose quantities and never in pre-packs. b) Overstock supplies are computed and cannot be interfaced. Transfer Evaluation Transfer quantities to be allocated for the destination stores are computed in this process. This process is similar to the suggested allocated quantity computation process. Transfer quantities are computed when the following conditions are met: The destination store is either in the in-season or end of season phase for the item. The current business date is less than the user-configured days before the end of season date for the item-location. The system suggested transfer quantity is greater than the user-configured % need of the destination store. The potential revenue gain from transfers is greater than the user-configured minimum savings. Examples : Current Business Date : 15th March Do not suggest transfers if the current business date is 10 days before the end of season date to suggest transfers. Inseason Start End of season date Suggested Transfer Quantity 75% Need Savings from Transfer Minimum Savings Comment Store 1 1st Jan 30th March 100 30 20 10 Transfer suggested Store 2 1st Jan 30th March 30 75 20 10 Transfer is not suggested as the suggested transfer quantity is less than the specified % need. Store 3 1st Jan 30th March 100 30 20 10 Transfer suggested Store 4 1st Jan 30th March 100 30 5 10 Transfer is not suggested as the savings from transfers less the minimum configured savings. Store 5 1st April 30th June 100 Transfer is not suggested as the store is pre-season phase. Store 6 1st Jan 22nd March Transfer is not suggested as the current business date is more than configured days before the end of season date. Transfer Processing Transfer allocation processing is similar to how DC allocations are processed. Allocation transfers are processed for the destination stores based on the user-configured triggers. Automatic Transfers Evaluation (Recalculation) Scheduled Job Manual Transfers Evaluation Automatic Transfers Evaluation (Recalculation): The transfer parameter configuration (Automatically Evaluate Store to Store Transfers) in the allocation policy will determine if transfer allocations are triggered automatically: If the configuration is set to yes, the system runs transfers automatically after DC allocations. Scheduled Job: A new scheduled job is available to process all overstock supplies. (TransferEngineScheduledJob). All overstock supplies (all statuses) will be processed with the job. All Suggested, Submitted, Approved allocation quantities coming from DC supplies are considered when transfers job is run; this is to ensure inventory is supplied from DC first and over allocation is avoided. NOTE: It is recommended that the transfer job should be scheduled to run after the Allocation Engine Scheduled Job, so that the DCs fulfill any need that it can before suggesting transfers. Approved overstock allocations are auto released like on-hand supplies. Manual Transfers Process: Users can manually trigger transfer allocation by using the Evaluate Transfers action in 'Unallocated Supplies', 'Allocated supplies' and Allocation Maintenance screen. Allocation Review and Approval Transfer Allocations will be reviewed, submitted, and approved in the same way as DC allocations. Users can filter overstock supplies with the new supply filter 'Overstock Supply' in 'Allocated Supplies' and 'Unallocated supplies' screens. Note: a) There is no change to the source store's on-hand after supply suggestion, submission, approval and order release. b) The quantity to be transferred is displayed as the reserved quantity. c) The quantity to be transferred is displayed as the on order inventory for the respective destination stores. Configurations 1. Set Overstock Supply Creation (OverstockSupplyNotificationEnabled) = True 2. Enable Transfer Out for Source Stores: Overstock will be computed only for the stores for which 'Allow Transfer Out' is set to True. This configuration can be done for the respective stores in the locations screen. 3. Configure transfer parameters in Allocation Policy within allocation strategy for respective Primary DCs and items. Implementation Flavors NA UIs and Entities NA Related Articles