# Overview &amp;amp;amp; Authentication

**Permalink:** overview-authentication
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Order Management/Process & Configuration Guides/Digital Self-Service/Overview & Authentication
**Content Length:** 42,756 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:55:09.200217

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Order Management››Process & Configuration Guides››Digital Self-Service ››Overview &amp;amp; Authentication Digital Self-Service Overview & Authentication Manhattan Active® Omni Digital Self-Service is a customer-facing application which enables customers to manage their post-purchase experience. Instead of calling customer service, customers can track shipments, create returns, and more by launching a web-based, self-service portal on their mobile phone, tablet, or laptop. The look and feel of Digital Self-Service can be customized to suit your brand. Supported Use CasesHow Customers Access Digital Self-ServiceLicensing RequirementsDomain MaskingAuthenticationCurbside Pickup AuthenticationShipment Tracking AuthenticationCreate Return AuthenticationReturn Tracking AuthenticationExtend Pickup Window AuthenticationPay by Link AuthenticationPayment Recovery AuthenticationOrder Cancellation AuthenticationShip It Instead: BOPIS to Shipment Conversion AuthenticationShip It Instead: BOPIS to Shipment Conversion Due to Store Short AuthenticationChange Shipping Address AuthenticationManage Orders Address AuthenticationAlternate Pickup Person AuthenticationNet Promoter Score (NPS) Survey AuthenticationGenerating Order TokensLaunching Digital Self-ServiceLaunching via Email or TextLaunching via E-CommerceHow to Configure Access ControlRequired Configuration for Cross-Org Fulfillment in DSS Supported Use Cases The use cases currently supported include: Track shipment Create return Create same style exchange Extend pick-up window (for buy online, pick up in store) Curbside pickup (for buy online, pick up in store) Order cancellation BOPIS to shipment conversion BOPIS to shipment conversion due to store short An option for customers to contact customer service via phone, email, text, or Twitter can be enabled for each of the above pages as required. See the Contact Customer Service guide for details. Follow the links above for more details on each feature. The Digital Self-Service pages display up to ten items maximum, along with a "+ X more" message to indicate if some items are not shown. If a customer needs to take action on an item which is not shown, they should reach out to the contact center. How Customers Access Digital Self-Service To access Digital Self-Service, customers need to be provided with the URL. Digital Self-Service is web-based and does not require installation of any applications. There are two typical methods of providing access to the Digital Self-Service URL: via email or linked in e-commerce. The URL can be embedded in an email, such as a shipment confirmation email. That email can be generated from Active® Omni or from another email system. Read here for more information about  Active® Omni email capabilities. For example, when a customer's order ships, they receive a shipment confirmation email. That email contains links to 'Track Package' and 'Create Return'. The customer can select the 'Track Package' link in the email to launch the self-service Shipment Tracking page in a web browser. In the case of pick up in store orders, the customer receives an email (or text) when the items are ready for pickup. That email/text includes links to the Pick up Later or Curbside Pickup self-service UIs. The URL can also be embedded in an e-commerce website, from where customers can initiate shipment tracking, returns, and extending their pick up window. Currently, the Digital Self-Service UI cannot be embedded in a third party site such as e-commerce. Instead, e-commerce can link to Digital Self-Service, which will launch in a new browser tab. Digital Self-Service has a responsive UI and can be accessed on mobile, tablet, and desktop form factors. Licensing Requirements The following table indicates which capabilities require an Enterprise Order Management (EOM) or Store Inventory and Fulfillment (SIF) subscription. In general, the licensing requirements follow the pattern of the underlying entities that need to be in place to enable these capabilities. Use Case Requires EOM License Requires SIF License Shipment Tracking No No Extend Pickup Window No Yes Curbside Pickup No Yes Create Return Yes No Create Even Exchange Yes No Return Tracking Yes No Cancel Order Yes Yes Pay by Link No* No Contact Customer Service No No Ship It Instead No Yes Change Shipping Address No No *Pay by Link requires either an EOM license or a POS license. Domain Masking As Digital Self-Service is end-customer-facing, it's important the domain name is customer-friendly. The first half of the domain name can be customized for projects in Google Cloud Platform (GCP) environments. For instance, instead of "sphs.omni.manh.com," your URL can be changed to "sophias.omni.manh.com" or "sophias-dss.omni.manh.com." To add domain masking, ask services to log an ops request. The ".omni.manh.com" portion of the URL cannot be changed. This can be accomplished by deploying a proxy server on the desired domain and routing traffic to Manhattan Active Omni. The domain name in payment URL displayed to customers during the checkout page is typically controlled by the payment service provider. Some payment gateways may offer customization options to mask these domain names. To add domain masking for payment URL, reach out to the payment service provider. Authentication Digital Self-Service authenticates by using URL parameters. The lists of required parameters differ by feature and are listed below. If any attribute is missing or invalid, then authentication fails and the UI displays an error. A traditional login UI or integration with e-commerce for authentication is not supported. These URLs are included in the emails generated from Active® Omni. The URLs can also be embedded in emails generated from any third party email system or in external sites such as ecommerce, which would launch Digital Self-Service in a web browser. Curbside Pickup Authentication The URL for the Curbside Pickup UI contains the following parameters, specific to the order being picked up: URL Parameter Required Mapping on Order Entity OrderId Yes Order.OrderId OrgId Yes Order.OrgId Token Yes Order.OrderToken LocationId Yes OrderLine.ShipToLocation of the pick up in store or ship to store lines Locale No Order.OrderLocale. If locale is null or the parameter is not present in the URL, then EN-US is used. See the Localization guide for more details. These parameters are used to form a URL as follows: https://<applicationURL>/selfservice/ui/app/pickup?orderId=<orderId>&orgId=<organization>&token=<orderToken>&locationId=<storeLocationId>&locale=<orderLocale> Shipment Tracking Authentication The URL for the Shipment Tracking UI contains the following parameters, specific to the shipped package: URL Parameter Required Mapping on Order Entity OrderId Yes Order.OrderId TrackingId Yes Order.OrderLine.FulfillmentDetail.TrackingNumber CarrierCode Yes Order.OrderLine.FulfillmentDetail.CarrierCode OrgId Yes Order.OrgId Token Yes Order.OrderToken Locale No Order.OrderLocale. If locale is null or the parameter is not present in the URL, then EN-US is used. See the Localization guide for more details. These parameters are used to form a URL as follows: https://<applicationURL>/selfservice/ui/app/tracking?orderId=<orderId>&trackingId=<trackingNumber>&carrierCode=<carrierCode>&orgId=<organization>&token=<orderToken>&locale=<orderLocale> Create Return Authentication The URL for the Create Return UI contains the following parameters, specific to the order being returned: URL Parameter Required Mapping on Order Entity OrderId Yes Order.OrderId OrgId Yes Order.OrgId Token Yes Order.OrderToken Locale No Order.OrderLocale. If locale is null or the parameter is not present in the URL, then EN-US is used. See the Localization guide for more details. These parameters are used to form a URL as follows: https://<applicationURL>/selfservice/ui/app/return?orderId=<orderId>&token=<orderToken>&orgId=<organization>&locale=<orderLocale>#create Return Tracking Authentication The URL for the Shipment Tracking UI contains the following parameters, specific to the shipped package: URL Parameter Required Mapping on Order Entity OrderId Yes Order.OrderId (for return order) TrackingId Yes Order.OrderLine.FulfillmentDetail.TrackingNumber CarrierCode Yes Order.OrderLine.FulfillmentDetail.CarrierCode OrgId Yes Order.OrgId Token Yes Order.OrderToken Locale No Order.OrderLocale. If locale is null or the parameter is not present in the URL, then EN-US is used. See the Localization guide for more details. These parameters are used to form a URL as follows: https://<applicationURL>/selfservice/ui/app/returntracking?orderId=<orderId>&trackingId=<trackingNumber>&carrierCode=<carrierCode>&orgId=<organization>&token=<orderToken>&locale=<orderLocale> Extend Pickup Window Authentication The URL for the Extend Pickup Window UI contains the following parameters, specific to the order being picked up: URL Parameter Required Mapping on Order Entity OrderId Yes Order.OrderId OrgId Yes Order.OrgId Token Yes Order.OrderToken LocationId Yes OrderLine.ShipToLocation of the pick up in store or ship to store lines Locale No Order.OrderLocale. If locale is null or the parameter is not present in the URL, then EN-US is used. See the Localization guide for more details. These parameters are used to form a URL as follows: https://<applicationURL>/selfservice/ui/app/pickuplater?orderId=<orderId>&orgId=<organization>&token=<orderToken>&locationId=<storeLocationId>&locale=<orderLocale>#create Pay by Link Authentication The URL for the Pay by Link UI contains the following parameters: URL Parameter Required Mapping on Order Entity OrderId Yes Order.OrderId OrgId Yes Order.OrgId Token Yes Order.OrderToken Locale No Order.OrderLocale. If locale is null or the parameter is not present in the URL, then EN-US is used. See the Localization guide for more details. These parameters are used to form a URL as follows: https://<applicationURL>/selfservice/ui/app/paybylink?orderId=<orderId>&orgId=<organization>&token=<orderToken>&locale=<orderLocale> Payment Recovery Authentication The URL for the Payment Recovery UI contains the following parameters: URL Parameter Required Mapping on Order Entity OrderId Yes Order.OrderId OrgId Yes Order.OrgId Token Yes Order.OrderToken Locale No Order.OrderLocale. If locale is null or the parameter is not present in the URL, then EN-US is used. See the Localization guide for more details. These parameters are used to form a URL as follows: https://<applicationURL>/selfservice/ui/app/paymentrecovery?orderId=<orderId>&orgId=<organization>&token=<orderToken>&locale=<orderLocale> Order Cancellation Authentication The URL for the Cancel Items UI contains the following parameters: URL Parameter Required Mapping on Order Entity OrderId Yes Order.OrderId OrgId Yes Order.OrgId Token Yes Order.OrderToken Locale No Order.OrderLocale. If locale is null or the parameter is not present in the URL, then EN-US is used. See the Localization guide for more details. These parameters are used to form a URL as follows: https://<applicationURL>/selfservice/ui/app/cancel?orderId=<orderId>&token=<orderToken>&orgId=<organization>&locale=<orderLocale> Ship It Instead: BOPIS to Shipment Conversion Authentication The URL for the Ship It Instead UI contains the following parameters: URL Parameter Required Mapping on Order Entity OrderId Yes Order.OrderId OrgId Yes Order.OrgId Token Yes Order.OrderToken Locale No Order.OrderLocale. If locale is null or the parameter is not present in the URL, then EN-US is used. See the Localization guide for more details. These parameters are used to form a URL as follows: https://<applicationURL>/selfservice/ui/app/pickupconversion?orderId=<orderId>&orgId=<organization>&token=<orderToken>&locationId=<storeLocationId>&locale=<orderLocale> Ship It Instead: BOPIS to Shipment Conversion Due to Store Short Authentication The URL for the Ship It Instead UI contains the following parameters: URL Parameter Required Mapping on Order Entity OrderId Yes Order.OrderId OrgId Yes Order.OrgId Token Yes Order.OrderToken Locale No Order.OrderLocale. If locale is null or the parameter is not present in the URL, then EN-US is used. See the Localization guide for more details. isShort Yes N/A - hardcode for this use case These parameters are used to form a URL as follows: https://<applicationURL>/selfservice/ui/app/pickupconversion?orderId=<orderId>&orgId=<organization>&token=<orderToken>&locationId=<storeLocationId>&locale=<orderLocale>&isShort=true Change Shipping Address Authentication The URL for the Change Shipping Address UI contains the following parameters: URL Parameter Required Mapping on Order Entity OrderId Yes Order.OrderId OrgId Yes Order.OrgId Token Yes Order.OrderToken Locale No Order.OrderLocale. If locale is null or the parameter is not present in the URL, then EN-US is used. See the Localization guide for more details. These parameters are used to form a URL as follows: https://<applicationURL>/selfservice/ui/app/changeshippingaddress?orderId=<orderId>&token=<orderToken>&orgId=<organization>&locale=<orderLocale> Manage Orders Address Authentication The URL for the Manage Orders UI contains the following parameters: URL Parameter Required Mapping on Order Entity OrderId Yes Order.OrderId OrgId Yes Order.OrgId Token Yes Order.OrderToken Locale No Order.OrderLocale. If locale is null or the parameter is not present in the URL, then EN-US is used. See the Localization guide for more details. These parameters are used to form a URL as follows: https://<applicationURL>/selfservice/ui/app/orderhistory?orderId=<orderId>&token=<orderToken>&orgId=<organization>&locale=<orderLocale> Alternate Pickup Person Authentication The URL for the Alternate Pickup Person UI contains the following parameters: URL Parameter Required Mapping on Order Entity OrderId Yes Order.OrderId OrgId Yes Order.OrgId Token Yes Order.OrderToken LocationId Yes OrderLine.ShipToLocation of the pick up in store or ship to store lines Locale No Order.OrderLocale. If locale is null or the parameter is not present in the URL, then EN-US is used. See the Localization guide for more details. These parameters are used to form a URL as follows: https://<applicationURL>/selfservice/ui/app/pickupperson?orderId=<orderId>&orgId=<organization>&token=<orderToken>&locationId=<storeLocationId>&locale=<orderLocale> Net Promoter Score (NPS) Survey Authentication The URL for the NPS Survey contains the following parameters: URL Parameter Required Mapping on Order Entity OrderId Yes Order.OrderId OrgId Yes Order.OrgId Token Yes Order.OrderToken Locale No Order.OrderLocale. If locale is null or the parameter is not present in the URL, then EN-US is used. See the Localization guide for more details. These parameters are used to form a URL as follows: https://<applicationURL>/selfservice/ui/app/survey?orderId=<orderId>&orgId=<organization>&token=<orderToken>&locale=<orderLocale> Generating Order Tokens A unique order token is generated for every order created in the order component. This token is saved in the OrderToken field and is used by DSS as URL parameter for authentication. Note: Order tokens are generated for orders created after June 2020. For orders created before June 2020, the order token will be null, and DSS currently cannot be accessed for these orders. Please work with services if you require access to DSS UIs (for example, returns) for orders created before June 2020. Launching Digital Self-Service Digital Self-Service can be launched anywhere. The link can be embedded in transactional emails or text, but most commonly it's launched from an e-commerce site. The diagrams below outline the process for launching and authenticating Digital Self-Service. Launching via Email or Text If Digital Self-Service is launched from an email or text delivered to the customer, then the URL is included in the email/text. The URL includes all parameters required to authenticate, so the customer does not need to enter any additional details and is directly taken to the relevant page to track their shipment, start a return, etc. To configure outbound messages for generating emails or text messages, see the Transactional Emails and Transactional Texts guides. Launching via E-Commerce If Digital Self-Service is launched from an e-commerce site, then there are a few variations of how authentication might work. If the customer has already authenticated with e-commerce by logging into their 'My Account' page, then the Digital Self-Service URL can be provided without asking the customer to enter any additional details. However, if a customer has not authenticated, for example in the case of guest returns, then e-commerce sites need to build a form where the customer can input key data to authenticate. For instance, many sites ask a customer for their order number and email to initiate a return. Any attributes which are stored on the order can be used for this form authentication step. The e-commerce site needs to host and build the form and make API calls to Active® Omni to check the input parameters against the order. See below for details. There are currently not any Digital Self-Service APIs which accept form parameters, so the validation of input data needs to be done by the e-commerce engine before launching Digital Self-Service. How to Configure Access Control No formal login is required for end customers. Instead, Digital Self-Service authenticates using URL attributes. The URL requires an OrgId with the organization of the order. When the call comes from the self-service UI to the back end, the OrgId which is passed in the URL is checked against the list of organizations which are configured in self-service. If the organization is configured, then the back end grants access and the UI loads the data. Calls between the self-service component and other components such as order require a valid login to use OAuth. To enable this authentication, a new, unique user needs to be configured for the Self-Service component to use when authenticating calls to other components. This user should only have the following resources: api::selfservice::* selfservice::* An entry must exist in the KV store for each organization which has orders that will be accessed in Self-Service. Work with services to complete the below configuration. This entry contains: Organization Id User Id to be used in API calls from Self-Service to other components To configure this, work with services to: Open the consul server > Key/Value > Config > COM-MANH-CP-SELFSERVICE. Add an entry as follows. This configuration is cumulative. Always add your org value to the existing list, instead of replacing the list. If the list contains orgs A and B and you replace it with org C, then orgs A and B are no longer permitted. You must replace it with A, B, and C. For example, if your organization is myClient: Key = selfservice.organizationMapping Value = {"globalorg-us":{"User":"admin@globalorg-us.com"}, "globalorg-uk": {"User":"admin@globalorg-uk.com"}, "globalorg-france": {"User":"admin@globalorg-france.com"}, "myClient": {"User":"admin@myClient.com"}} Select Update. Restart the Self-Service component. Required Configuration for Cross-Org Fulfillment in DSS If cross-organization fulfillment is enabled, then the following needs to be taken care of for DSS to be able to access and update fulfillment across different organizations. Cross-organization fulfillment must be enabled for all organizations which require cross-org access. LocationId values must be unique across all organizations. The configured DSS user has access to all organizations within the entire org structure.