# Overview and Navigation

**Permalink:** overview
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Order Management/Process & Configuration Guides/Customer Service/Overview and Navigation
**Content Length:** 24,944 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:54:41.131312

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Order Management››Process & Configuration Guides››Customer Service ››Overview and Navigation Overview and Navigation OverviewHome ScreenCustomer Transactions ListCustomer Notes and Profile DisplayUser Interface ThemingAccessing the Standard Theme Directly from the UIConfigurationCompact Mode for Call Center ScreensCompact Mode ConfigurationLarge Order SupportConfigurationServicesImplementation FlavorHow to identify registered customer while searching customer from CSR dashboard screenRelated Articles Overview In Customer Service, contact center agents/customer service representatives (CSR) can assist customers with order status inquiries, placing orders, returning items, or modifying existing orders. Home Screen The Customer Service Home Screen includes search functions for the following:order, customer, item. Changing Home Screen Background Organizations can choose their own background that reflects their brand to provide continuity across tools. To change the background, see the Call Center Configuration. Searching for Customers The customer search function supports searching: For registered or anonymous customers Note: • While importing orders for unregistered customers, if the order is imported with a dummy customer Id, the system will not automatically link the customer with the new customer ID or register the customer automatically. This customer will not be searchable on the Contact center application. • However, if an order for an unregistered customer is imported without a customer Id, the system will treat the customer as an anonymous customer, and it will save the customer details which can be searched on the Contact center application. • Out of the box, there is no way to show that a customer is registered or not in the system. Using keyword search for customer ID, phone, first name, last name or email Using the exact search for customer first name, last name, email, or phone by clicking 'View More Search Options' Searching for Items This panel allows CSR to search for items using item ID, style or color. On searching for an item, Item Search screen it appears and provides additional filtering and sorting capabilities. On the Item Search screen, the CSR can begin building an order by adding items to the order. Note: For performance reasons, the use of the wildcard character '*' is supported only for short descriptions and is not supported in item/product searches. Additionally, searching for multiple item IDs separated by commas (example, 12345, 6789) in a single query is not supported. Searching for Orders CSRs can search for an order by entering the exact order number. The order details are displayed on the Order Status screen. The CSR can also click on item search or orders on the left panel. Item search will take the contact center agent to items within the selected organization and orders will take the agent to all orders from open to fulfilled status. Customer Transactions List The customer transactions list is a high-level summary view of the customer's details and transactions. It allows the CSR to view the list of orders for the given customer (registered or anonymous). This includes all types of orders such as ship to home, buy-online pick-up in store (BOPIS), point of sale (POS) transactions, returns, and digital goods. If a customer has placed orders across multiple organizations, then the call center configuration 'View Orders Across Organization' can be enabled to control this visibility. Refer to Cross Organization Configuration for details. Note: Archived orders are not shown in the transaction list. CSRs can navigate to the transaction list page either by: Searching for the customer on the CSR home screen. Once the CSR has executed the search and located the correct customer, the CSR will see a list of transactions for the selected customer. After placing/confirming the order for a customer The Customer Transaction page consists of the following sections: Customer Metrics: The customer metrics provide key indicators of the customer's loyalty and purchases with the retailer. The metrics include information such as the number of full price purchases, value of appeasements and lifetime purchases. For information about customer metrics, see the Customer Dashboard Metrics section. The metrics are displayed if the following conditions have been met: the agent has the correct grants, the retailer has chosen to include the metrics by selecting the Display Customer Metrics on Customer Transactions Dashboard checkbox on the Call Center Configuration, and the metrics are being maintained for the customer. Note: A Customer engagement license is NOT required to view customer Metrics on the customer transaction page within the contact center application Transaction List: Thretransaction list section displays all the order transactions for a particular customer. Click a record in the transaction list to display the items and transaction details in the corresponding sections. Items: The Item section displays the details of the items associated with the selected transaction. Transaction Details: Displays the transaction details such as payment and shipment status for the selected order. The transaction list can further be sorted based on the type of purchase and date. Note: When the Cross Organization Order Visibility feature is enabled, the customer transactions list will display the Org ID column with the organization ID of the specific order. Customer Notes and Profile Display Customer Notes Contact center agents can typically use this ‘Customer notes’ functionality to add specific notes/instructions regarding a particular customer. This helps any customer center agent to have a clear picture of any notes/instructions about the customer while working with them. A note counter is available in the customer profile card to see the number of notes available for a customer. Customer-related notes can belong to different note categories. While saving a customer note, the agent can select an appropriate note from the customer category drop-down and add a corresponding note. A customer note should always have a note category. Note categories can be created from the note category configuration under the Manage customer configuration menu entry. The customer note category Id on the customer note category configuration is what the users will see on the customer notes pop-up under the note category drop-down while creating new notes as well as viewing notes that are already saved. Contact center agents should be able to view/add/edit and delete customer notes if they have the appropriate grants. Note: The customer notes pop up will show 10 notes at a time, after which the user can use the paginator on the pop-up to view more notes. Customer notes can be created for registered and unregistered customers. The time zone of the created and edited timestamp is always in the logged-in user's timezone. Once deleted, there is no way to retrieve customer notes. Customer Profile The customer profile contains all customer information, saved payment details, and preferences. This page can be used to set the preferred billing/shipping address, shipping method, contact method, and so on. The details such as phone number, email, weather based on preferred address, member since and other customer details that are shown on the customer dashboard are fetched from the customer profile. Contact center agents should be able to view/add/edit and delete customer profile information if they have the appropriate grants. User Interface Theming Contact center users can now select a new “Standard” Cobalt theme for their agents to use within the contact center and customer engagement screens within the Manhattan Active® Omni Customer Service solution. The Standard Cobalt Theme is a cobalt blue theme and is available for the Contact Center and Customer Engagement screens. This theme includes a simplified color palette along with improvements to navigation, information hierarchy, and typography. This theme has a default color scheme, colors and fonts cannot be customized. Accessing the Standard Theme Directly from the UI The Contact Center UIs include a theme drop-down on the top menu ribbon. The user can use the drop-down to select one of the following: 'Standard UI' for the Standard Cobalt Theme or Classic Theme for the original UI theme. This allows users the opportunity to utilize the Standard theme without requiring configuration. The system will apply the selected theme on all contact center UIs during the user's session. The system will revert to the configured theme once the session is ended. Configuration To enable the Standard Cobalt Theme, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Proactive > Proactive Menu > Functional Config > Review Behavior Changes. For the record with Change Name as 'Cobalt Theme,' set Enabled to 'true'. If not enabled by the Must Enable By Date listed in this UI, the theme will automatically be enabled on this date. The Cobalt theme has a default color scheme. Before enabling the Cobalt Blue theme, validate all extension points to ensure they align with the new color pallet. Note: Projects starting afresh after September 2022 will only have one theme - COBALT theme for customer engagement and Contact center. Compact Mode for Call Center Screens Contact center users can now switch to a compact view on selected contact center application screens. This feature allows users to collapse or expand key UI sections such as Customer Info, Order Status Bar, Order Lines, and Order Totals, helping reduce visual clutter and improve usability—particularly useful on smaller screens like laptops. Users can personalize the layout based on their viewing preference and save it. Once saved, the preferred layout will automatically appear every time the user lands on the page, providing a consistent and streamlined experience across sessions. Compact mode is currently available on the following pages only: Order Status Return Status Exchange Status Note: Status Summary Behavior -The Status Summary section is not part of the saved layout. It automatically expands or collapses based on the current order status field. Using extensibility - If a field is hidden in the expanded view of a section, it will automatically be hidden in the collapsed view of the same section. Compact Mode Configuration To enable the compact mode feature, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Proactive > Proactive Menu > Functional Config > Review Behavior Changes. For the record with Change Name as 'OM - Compact mode for call center screens,' set Enabled to 'true'. If not enabled by the Must Enable By Date listed in this UI, the feature will automatically be enabled on this date.  Refer to the behavior change page for more information. Large Order Support The contact centre and customer engagement application have been updated to provide enhanced UI support orders with a large number of order lines. This has been done by displaying pagination and enhanced scroll capability for large orders. There are slight changes to the UI where we have introduced pagination and scroll to accommodate information on large orders. Click here to know more about the enhanced UI behaviour: Each order group on the edit order page will have 5 items/order lines within it, after which a CDK scroll starts to appear that can be used by the user to scroll down with ease to view more order lines within a group. A maximum of 10 order groups can be viewed on the edit order page, after which pagination starts to appear, to view the next set of 10 groups. All groups are auto-expanded only when the edit order page is loaded with 5 groups. However, when the page has more than 5 groups, only the first group is auto-expanded, and all the other groups are auto-collapsed. All groups on a page have the ability to be collapsed/expanded when the user clicks on the “^” or “V” icon. A maximum of 5 appeasements and coupons will be displayed on the respective pop-ups post which appeasement and coupon details can be seen using pagination A maximum of 5 shipping methods will be displayed on the shipping method drop-down, post which the remaining shipping methods can be viewed using the pagination 10 coupon cards will be shown on the coupons pop up post which pagination can be used to see more coupon cards, similarily only 10 promotion records will be displayed at a time, and pagination can be used to view more promotions in the promotion list pop up Available addresses, used addresses in the edit order page will show only 10 rows at a time. The user can use pagination to view more addresses. Return/Completed/In-progress/planned shipments as well as payments and settlements in the Order status and transaction list page will display 10 rows at a time. Pagination can be used to view more records. Stores in the store locator pop up, Items added to cart, Items available to return, and Payment method display will also show 10 records at a time. Pagination can be used to view more records. For orders with more than large orderlines, when the user tries to update the shipping address on existing lines with no shipping method, UI will not auto populate default shipping methods due to performance reasons. Configuration To enable the enhanced UI for large order support: Navigate to Menu > Proactive > Proactive Menu > Functional Config > Review Behavior Changes. For the record with Change Name as 'Large Order Support for Contact Center UI' set Enabled to 'true'. If not enabled by the Must Enable By Date listed in this UI, the enhanced UI will automatically be enabled on this date. Services Service Component Group Service Endpoint Import customer Customer Customer Services POST/customer/api/customer/customer/import Bulk import a list of customer(s) Customer Customer Services POST/customer/api/customer/customer/bulkImport Implementation Flavor How to identify registered customer while searching customer from CSR dashboard screen Follow the below steps: Implement the field extension (ScreenId: ce::csr-dashboard,ExtensionId: customer-search-result) Implement the field as a label to display CustomerId of the customer entity Now the CSR can identify registered customers from search results list, since for anonymous customer CustomerId is null Note: When adding a new extension with custom options, any custom functionality included will not load correctly in preview mode. This is because previewed changes are not saved during a page refresh, so the initial load will still reflect the available out of the box options. To fully see the effect of the custom changes, the changes must be deployed. Note: Out of the box allows only static labels to be localized by the system. Their corresponding values cannot be localized, as they are dynamic in nature. Related Articles Call Center ConfigurationReturns and ExchangesTroubleshooting UI ResourcesOrder Status InquiryCustomer Service Insights DashboardItem SearchTransactional TextsKits in Call CenterTransactional EmailsOrder ModificationsCross-Organization Visibility