# Override Prices 

**Permalink:** overrideprices
**Content Length:** 6,290 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:35:21.710246

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Customer Engagement&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Attributes ››Override Prices Overriding Prices Price override functionality allows the user to modify the system-defined price of an item. The price of an item can be overridden multiple&nbsp;times, and the value of&nbsp;the price can be greater or lesser than the original price. Price overrides are permitted based on the order mod type configuration. Provides complete history of the price overrides. Note: The Override Price permissions are required to modify the price. Overriding Item Price To override the item price, perform the following steps: On the Item Search page,&nbsp;search and select an item.&nbsp; After you&nbsp;add&nbsp;the items to the shopping cart and complete the checkout process, the&nbsp;Call Center&nbsp;page is displayed. In the item section of the Call Center page, click the icon that is next to the Price field of the item. The&nbsp;Override Price&nbsp;dialog box appears. In the&nbsp;New Price&nbsp;field, enter the new price. In the Reason list, select a valid reason code. In the Comments text box, enter an appropriate description for overriding the item price. Click&nbsp;Apply.&nbsp;In the item section, the price of the item now appears in green indicating that the price has been overridden. In the Price override history section of the Override Price dialog box, you can view the complete history of all the price overrides done for the item. By default, the last updated price change record appears first.&nbsp; If there is no price override for the item, &quot;No overrides on item price&quot; message is displayed. Reverting to the Original Item Price You can revert an overridden price of an item to its original price. The original price is the base price of the item at the time of order creation. On the Item Search page,&nbsp;search and select an item.&nbsp; After you&nbsp;add&nbsp;the items to the shopping cart and complete the checkout process, the&nbsp;Call Center&nbsp;page is displayed. In the item section of the Call Center&nbsp;page, click the icon that is next to the Price field of the item. The&nbsp;Override Price&nbsp;dialog box appears. Select the Revert to original price check box to revert the item to its original price.&nbsp; Note: The Revert to original price check box will be enabled for selection only when the price has been overridden at least once. The default reason code Revert to original Price will be populated in the system automatically when the price is reverted using this option. Click Apply.&nbsp;The item price now appears in black color.