# Override Shipping and Handing Charges 

**Permalink:** overrides
**Content Length:** 5,811 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:35:22.495501

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Customer Engagement&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Attributes ››Override Shipping and Handing Charges Overriding Shipping and Handling Charges Shipping and Handling charge override functionality enables you to override the system-defined shipping and handling (S&amp;H) charges for the customer order. S&amp;H can be overridden on orders in any status, based on the order mod type configuration. Also, the Override Shipping and Handling Charges permission is required to modify the charges. You can override the shipping and handling charges once the charge is available under the Order Total section.&nbsp; Overriding S&amp;H Charges To override S&amp;H charges, perform the following steps: On the Item Search page,&nbsp;search and select an item.&nbsp; After you&nbsp;add&nbsp;the items to the shopping cart and complete the checkout process, the&nbsp;Call Center&nbsp;page is displayed. In the Order Total section of the Call Center&nbsp;page, click the icon that is next to the Estimated S&amp;H field. The&nbsp;Override S&amp;H Charges&nbsp;dialog box is displayed. In the&nbsp;New Charges&nbsp;field, enter the new price. In the Reason list, select a valid reason code. In the Comments text box, enter an appropriate description for overriding the shipping and handling charges for the order. Click&nbsp;Apply. Reverting to the Original Estimated S&amp;H Charges You can revert overridden S&amp;H charges of an order to its original estimated price. On the Item Search page,&nbsp;search and select an item.&nbsp; After you&nbsp;add&nbsp;the items to the shopping cart and complete the checkout process, the&nbsp;Call Center&nbsp;page is displayed. In the Order Total section of the Call Center&nbsp;page, click the&nbsp; icon that is next to the Estimated S&amp;H&nbsp;field. The&nbsp;Override S&amp;H Charges&nbsp;dialog box is displayed. Select the Recalculate S&amp;H charges check box to revert the S&amp;H charges of the item to the original value. Note: The Recalculate S&amp;H charges check box is enabled for selection only when the S&amp;H charges have been overridden at least once. The default reason code Recalculate S&amp;H charges will be populated in the system automatically when the price is reverted using this option. Click Apply.