# Packing Configuration

**Permalink:** packingconfiguration
**Content Length:** 22,607 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:36:08.427566

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Inventory & Fulfillment&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Order Fulfillment&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Packing ››Packing Configuration Packing Configuration &nbsp; Packing ConfigurationMaster DataReason CodesPackage Type SortingStore Fulfillment ConfigurationScan ControlsStore Fulfillment ParametersSuppress Default Package TypeScan Item to Pack OrderScan Item to Pack Order - Auto select highest priority order for packingFulfillment Outbound Event ConfigurationCustomer Shipments - Enable warning pop-up when packing less than expectedStore exceptions idle task time interval in mins for shipment pack ordersStore Cubing ConfigurationUIs and Entities Master Data The master data entities listed below pertain to the Packing functionality. Refer to the&nbsp;Master Data Guide&nbsp;for additional information. Item Reason Codes Reason codes with reason type 'Short' must be defined in the Store Fulfillment Reasons UI to report shortages during packing. Reason codes with fulfillment type equal to null or 'ShipmentOrder' are displayed for shorting. Package Type Sorting Store Fulfillment Configuration Scan Controls The&nbsp;Required to scan at least one unit&nbsp;flag&nbsp;on the Store Fulfillment Configuration UI controls the edit quantity behavior on the UI. At least one unit is required to be scanned before editing the packed quantity in the UI, if the&nbsp;flag is set to true. Editing quantity is allowed for only those items that have&nbsp;Scan Only&nbsp;attribute set as false. This is helpful in ensuring the right items are packed without losing the ability to edit the quantity in the case of multi-unit packing. This applies only to the picking and packing UI. Store Fulfillment Parameters Suppress Default Package Type The Suppress&nbsp;package type defaulting for&nbsp;customer shipments&nbsp;flag&nbsp;on the Store Fulfillment Parameters&nbsp;UI controls whether the package type is defaulted to associates during packing. If set to true, the package type default is suppressed, and the user must choose a package type before closing the package. Otherwise, the package type is defaulted to the user. The previously selected package type is shown as the default. If this is the first packing done on the device, the first package type in the list is used as the default. This configuration is turned off&nbsp;by default. Scan Item to Pack Order If set to true, associates can scan an item to select a picklist for packing. Else (not set to true), associates must select a picklist to pack using another way. This configuration is disabled by default. Scan Item to Pack Order - Auto select highest priority order for packing This parameter controls whether the highest priority fulfillment is automatically selected when the item exists on fulfillments across multiple picklists. This parameter is only used when the ‘Scan item to pack order’ parameter is enabled. If set to true, the highest priority fulfillment that exists (across all eligible picklists) to pack for that item is automatically selected. If the fulfillment's priority is null, created date/time is used, and the fulfillment of the oldest created date/time is selected. Else (not set to true), a list of picklists/fulfillments is displayed for the user to manually choose which picklist/order to pack. This configuration is disabled by default. Fulfillment Outbound Event Configuration Customer Shipments - Enable warning pop-up when packing less than expected The&nbsp;Customer Shipments - Enable warning pop-up when packing less than expected&nbsp;flag&nbsp;on the Store Fulfillment Parameters&nbsp;UI controls whether a warning pop-up will be shown to the user if less than expected quantities have been packed. The warning pop-up is to communicate to the user that there are remaining items left to pack and if the user wants to continue closing the package and generating a shipping label. If this flag is turned off, a warning pop-up is not shown to the user if&nbsp;less than expected is packed.&nbsp;&nbsp; This configuration is turned off&nbsp;by default. Store exceptions idle task time interval in mins for shipment pack orders This parameter defines the time interval after which a shipment pack task is considered idle. The idle time is calculated as the current time - last modified time of the task. This configuration is set to 0 by default. Store Cubing Configuration Perform the below steps to configure cubing: 1. Add the new profile purposes to your custom profile using&nbsp;the&nbsp;Provisioning Profile UI: Select your Provisioning Profile and click&nbsp;Sync. Navigate to the Provisioning Profile Details for your&nbsp;custom profile Click&nbsp;Add.&nbsp; Enter the profile purpose name from the list below. If this is a location overridden profile, enter the Location ID or Store Profile ID.&nbsp;If this profile exists at the organization level, leave these blank. Enter the name of your custom profile for the To Profile ID. Select Copy Seed Data. Repeat steps 3-7 for the remaining profile purposes. Profile Purposes to copy from base to custom profile &nbsp;cub::cubingConfig, cub::cubingFacilityConfig, cub::applicationParameterConfig, cub::validationErrors, cub::config, cub::rules 2. Define&nbsp;package types in the&nbsp;Package Types UI. For each package type, ensure the following is entered: Length - This is used for critical dimension cubing. Width - This is used for critical dimension cubing. Height - This is used for critical dimension cubing. Package Type Group: This value associates the package type with a parent grouping. For example, a retailer could ship three sizes of boxes which will exist as five different package types, each with Package Type Group = "Box". Package Type Group Description: Description of the package type group. Max Cubing Volume: If cubing should consider volume as a constraint, define the maximum volume that the package type can hold. To inactivate this constraint, set to a high value which would never be reached before the other constraints are met. This field must be populated.&nbsp;Do not set to zero. Max Cubing Weight:&nbsp;If cubing should consider weight as a constraint, define the maximum weight&nbsp;that the package type can hold.&nbsp;To inactivate this constraint, set to a high value which would never be reached before the other constraints are met. This field must be populated.&nbsp;Do not set to zero. Max Cubing Units:&nbsp;If cubing should consider number of units as a constraint, define the maximum units that the package type can hold.&nbsp;To inactivate this constraint, set to a high value which would never be reached before the other constraints are met. This field must be populated.&nbsp;Do not set to zero. Note:&nbsp;One, two or all three constraints can be defined for a package type based on how the retailer wants to evaluate constraints. For example, a retailer may choose to constrain their box package types by&nbsp;maximum volume and weight. But for their poly bags, they may choose to constrain by weight, volume and number of units. Also,&nbsp;“Ship Ready” is a reserved package type. Do not define a package type with this value. Note: In package type UI,&nbsp;&nbsp;Unit of Measure Name value to be used as 'key'.&nbsp;Unit of Measure Code represents the unit of length, width and height of the package like 'IN', 'CM' etc. Though, these fields are not used in the cubing algorithm to recommend package types but are mandatory 3. If you have one or more ship ready items, a Carrier Package Type entry must exist for ship ready for&nbsp;each carrier. Access the Carrier Package Type UI from the Carriers UI. Add a new carrier package type for ship ready as below: i) Package Type Id = "ShipReady" ii) Carrier Code: Carrier Code Value to which the carrier package type is being added (eg "FXDG") iii) Carrier Package Type ID: Represents the carrier package Type Id and accepts any value of choice. eg: CUSTOM 4.Ensure that the following attributes are present in the&nbsp;Master Data-&gt;Items.&nbsp;The unit of measure used for item weight, volume and dimensions must match the unit of measure of the package types. UOM conversion is not supported. Volume Weight Critical Dimension 1: Optional. Populate with the item's length, width or height if&nbsp;the item should be cubed using dimensional cubing. For an item, any number of critical dimensions can be defined (0, 1, 2 or all 3.) Critical Dimension 2 - Same as above Critical Dimension 3 - Same as above Ship Ready: Set to true if this item is already in a container that's suitable for shipping and does not need to be packed into another container before shipping. Note: Critical Dimensions 1 to 3 and Ship Ready flag can be accessed through new Items MUP by clicking on Items link in omnifacade. 5. Configure the&nbsp;Cubing Strategy using the&nbsp;Cubing Strategy UI. Edit the pre-seeded "Store Cubing Strategy" record. Add a new Cubing Criteria (Cube-to-Capacity Criteria). Criteria Definition - Enter a name and description for the criteria. Cubing Criteria Rules - Define rules based on the available rule attributes. Available rule attributes include item name, item product class, item style, store dept, order line, order line name & hazmat item(set to '0' for false and '1' for true). To define multiple criteria with an AND condition, use the match "All" value. Use match "Any" to relate multiple criteria using an OR condition. To define a nested rule with OR and AND, create a new group using the "Add New Grouping" action. Or, use the checkbox to signify that this is a catch-all rule. The extended attributes can exist at the Item and Fulfillment Line levels, but not for the child entities associated with them. (like Item Codes, FulfillmentLineUnits, etc.) Cubing Method - Define whether cubing should minimize the total number of packages or the total volume of packages. Residual Cubing Parameter: Define the package type group to use if this criteria is picked. This will map all the package types that are part of the package type group with the Cubing Criteria, and the package types will be provided as a part of recommendation. Add any additional Cubing Criteria, and use the UI to arrange the criteria so they are in the correct sequence. Criteria can also be inactivated, if needed. 6.&nbsp;Enable the&nbsp;Perform Cubing&nbsp;flag in the Store Fulfillment Parameters UI. Ensure that RFID Enabled Packing flow is disabled in Store RFID Parameters MUP UI. Since, RFID Cubing is currently not&nbsp;supported,&nbsp;if RFID Packing occurs while cubing is enabled, associates are directed to the non-cubed packing UI. Note:&nbsp;To help confirm that all required configuration is in place, several validations are performed when the user attempts to&nbsp;enable the 'Perform Cubing' flag. An error message lists the required configuration that is missing. The user must first complete any missing configuration before attempting to enable the flag again. Also, there is a UI grant that controls visibility of exit guided packing button, pls refer. UIs and Entities The configuration UIs mentioned in this document are listed in the following table,&nbsp;along with information to&nbsp;navigate&nbsp;to the API documentation. UI Name Component Group Seed Data Present? Seed Data Profile Store Fulfillment Configuration Fulfillment FulfillmentConfiguration&nbsp;services Yes Base Store Fulfillment Parameters Fulfillment FulfillmentParameters services Yes Base Store Fulfillment Reasons Fulfillment FulfillmentReason&nbsp;services Yes Base Package Types Parcel PackageType&nbsp;services Yes Base