# Payment Overview

**Permalink:** paymentoverview
**Content Length:** 8,646 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:34:24.823999

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Selling&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Payment ››Payment Overview Payment Overview &nbsp;I&nbsp;Next &nbsp; The Payment component processes payments for orders initiating in any channel, including&nbsp;e-commerce, point of sale (POS), or contact center. Throughout the life cycle of each order, the Payment component manages order authorizations, settlements, and refunds through integration&nbsp;with payment gateways such as CyberSource, PayPal, or PAYware Connect. Manhattan Active&reg; Omni stores the payment information as part of the order entity to collect payment when an order is fulfilled. In addition to the order entity, the payment information can be saved as part of the customer profile so the preferred payment can be automatically added as part of the order capture process. Each order can be paid with an unlimited number of payment methods. Manhattan Active&reg; Omni supports payment types including cash, check, credit card, debit card, e-check, gift card, PayPal, store credit, and traveler&#39;s check.&nbsp;In addition to out of the box payment types, MAO can be extended to add customer specific payment types like Account Receivable or Private Label Credit Card. To ensure the security of payment data, Active&reg; Omni follows a standard set of protocols to store, transmit and display payment data. It is important to follow the guidelines to ensure&nbsp;payment data is secure. For credit card payments,&nbsp;the card number must be stored in a vault, while the&nbsp;corresponding irreversible token is stored within Manhattan Active&reg; Omni. This process is commonly referred to as tokenization. A tokenization service is offered by most of the payment gateways. In the event that the payment gateway does not offer a tokenization service, a tokenization service needs to be purchased from a third party. Manhattan recommends to use Tokenization for Private Label Cards as well. See the&nbsp;Capturing Payment&nbsp;guide for more on tokenization. Payment Processing Capabilities If a payment is captured and authorized in the order capture system such as POS or e-commerce, then the payment component&nbsp;performs follow-on re-authorizations, settlements and refunds against the initial authorization. If the payment is captured in a system such as call center but is not yet authorized, then the payment component&nbsp;authorizes the payment. The Payment component&nbsp;uses order data to determine what type of transactions are required. Settlements are created for the value of the items which have been fulfilled,&nbsp;and authorizations are created for those that are ordered but not yet shipped or picked up. For example, when an in-store purchase is made using a credit card,&nbsp;a settlement is captured&nbsp;for the value of the order.&nbsp;When an&nbsp;order is placed in the contact center using a credit card, an authorization is processed for the value of the order and will settle when the order ships. The payment component&nbsp;manages authorization and settlement failures, identified by a&nbsp;payment status which indicates that action needs to be taken on an order. If a payment is flagged by the payment gateway as potential fraud, then the order is flagged with a fraud hold. Note: If the base payment processing capabilities does not suit a specific retailer payment lifecycle, it is possible to customize the application to trigger payment processing based on Order configuration mod types. For example, if a payment method requires immediate settlement after authorization, the custom settlement process could be triggered by the mod type &quot;Update Payment Status to Authorized&quot; at order level.&nbsp; Payment data structure A payment is composed of: A payment header: The payment header is used to link together all the payment methods used on an order. A payment only exists in the context of an order so there can be only one payment header per order. One or multiple payment methods: A payment header can contain one or multiple payment methods. A maximum of 20 payment methods are supported in an order. The payment types that the retailer accepts have to be configured in the application to be able to create a payment method. One or multiple payment transaction: Each payment method can have one or multiple payment transactions associated to it. The payment transaction `TransactionType` possible values are: Balance check, Authorization, Settlement, Refund, Return Credit, Authorization Reversal, Void and Post Void. The list of supported transaction types is different depending of the payment method and the payment capture system. For example, balance check is used on gift cards but not on credit cards, Void and Post void transaction are only used on payments captured by Point of Sales. Return credit transactions are used on orders that are returned. Authorization reversal transactions are used internally to balance the payment total if the amount to be captured by the settlement is lower than the authorization. Authorization reversal transaction are not communicated to the payment gateway. The same transaction type can be used multiple times in the same payment method (for example: multiple settlement against the same authorization for a credit card payment). The same transaction type can be present in multiple payment methods in the same payment header. Example: A $100 order is paid with a $25 gift card and a $75 credit card transaction. The payment header has: Payment method: gift card Payment transaction: balance check Payment transaction: authorization Payment transaction: settlement Payment method: credit card Payment transaction: Authorization Payment transaction: settlement Related Articles SettlementTesting & Troubleshooting PaymentInvoicing and Sales PostingRest APIs and User ExitseInvoice AuthorizationPayment Health DashboardPayment Gateway IntegrationRefundsHow Payment Processing WorksOther Transaction TypesCapturing PaymentPayment TypesPayment Schedulers & Batch ProcessingPayment FailuresFraud