# Payment 

**Permalink:** payment
**Content Length:** 7,488 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:35:23.270175

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Customer Engagement&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Attributes ››Payment Payment The payment panel enables you to make the payment for the order by using Credit Cards, Gift Cards and E Checks. You can use one of the methods or a combination of the methods to make the payment for the order. The Send Pay-By-Link feature enables the&nbsp;customer placing order over phone to receive a link via email/text&nbsp;to input their own credit card or payment information. Each payment method is displayed in separate sections. Payment can be made by using one or more cards and e-checks. To make the payment for an order, perform the following steps: On the Item Search page, search and select an item.&nbsp; After you add the items to the shopping cart and complete the checkout process, the Call Center page is displayed. On the&nbsp;Call Center&nbsp;page, click the Shipping tab to enter the shipping details, and then click Proceed to Payment. In the Payment Options section, make payments using one or more of the following options: Send Pay-By-Link Click Send Pay-By-Link and&nbsp;enter the email address of the customer. Click Send Email or&nbsp;Send Text to send the link to the customer via email/text to provide the payment information. Click&nbsp;Copy URL&nbsp;to copy the digital self service&nbsp;Pay by Link URL to their clipboard to share it with the customer via the&nbsp;chat window&nbsp;so that the customer can pay for the order using the link. Click&nbsp;Leave Order&nbsp;to leave the order when there is no need for the agent to confirm the order and go till the last page to leave the order after sending the link.&nbsp;&nbsp; Click Refresh to refresh the page and load any payment methods the customer has added on their device. Note: After the customer notifies that the payment has been added, the CSR clicks the Refresh button to see the payment added and the balance due updated. Credit Cardi. Click Add Credit Card. ii. Select the Same as Shipping Address check box to use the existing address. If you do not want to use the existing address, you can edit the existing address. iii. Select the Card Type and click Add Card Info to add the card details. The Card Information pop-up window is displayed. Enter the details of the card. iv. Click Add to save the card information. Note:&nbsp;Manhattan Active&reg; Omni does not support sending CVV to custom payment providers for saved payments. The CSR is required to provide CVV so they would be providing dummy data in order to process the saved payment. Gift Cardi. Click Add Gift Card. ii. Enter the Card No and the PIN. iii. Click Add to associate the gift card payment to the order. iv. Click Reset to clear the entered values. E-checki. Click&nbsp;Add E check. &nbsp;Select the&nbsp;Same as Shipping Address&nbsp;check box to use the existing address. If you do not want to use the existing address, you can edit the existing address. ii. In the&nbsp;Card Information, enter the details of the card. iii. Click&nbsp;Add&nbsp;to save the E-check information. iv. Click&nbsp;Reset&nbsp;to clear the entered values. Travelers Checki. Click&nbsp;Add Travelers Check. &nbsp; ii. Enter the account number and amount. iii. Click&nbsp;Add&nbsp;to save the&nbsp;travelers check information. iv. Click&nbsp;Reset&nbsp;to clear the entered values. &nbsp;Click the&nbsp;Used Payment Options&nbsp;to view the options used for making the&nbsp;previous payments. &nbsp; You can view the total order amount, amount paid, and the remaining amount to be paid in the corresponding fields at&nbsp;the bottom of the Payment page. Click Proceed to Summary to navigate to the summary panel.&nbsp; Note: The Proceed to Summary button is enabled only when payment details are complete and Remaining to Pay is zero. If the total order amount has been paid and the Remaining to Pay=0, the Add Card Info will be disabled provided the Prevent adding new credit card if balance due is zero&nbsp;flag is set to true in the Call Center Configuration. &nbsp;