# Payment Health Dashboard

**Permalink:** payment-health-dashboard
**Content Length:** 20,118 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:34:29.768904

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Selling&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Payment ››Payment Health Dashboard Payment Health Dashboard Previous&nbsp;I&nbsp;Next &nbsp; OverviewWhat is TrackedPayment&nbsp;Dashboard MetricsSalesPayment FailuresPayment RecoveriesPayment Source TrackingConfigurationGrantsImplementation FlavorsTrack source&nbsp;data when using a custom hosted checkoutRelated Articles Overview The&nbsp;Payment Health Dashboard provides broad metrics and KPI&#39;s using payment transactional data. The dashboard provides visibility into payments collected, payments that failed to process, and payment recovered using features from the payment and digital self-service&nbsp;modules. What is Tracked The primary goal of this dashboard is to provide insight on the high-level picture of payment processing for a selected organization for a particular day or&nbsp;series of days. Additionally, the dashboard provides different breakdowns of payment collection, failure, and recovery information to highlight the impact of the payment recovery features available for retailers using the payment module. The aggregated payment data is stored for up to 1 year before it is purged. Although a wider range of days&nbsp;can be selected from the UI, the data displayed will apply only to payment&nbsp;transactions processed within the past 365 days. The following payment transactional information is referenced when compiling dashboard metrics: Payment Methods Captured payment tender origin source Payment type Payment Transactions Successful settlement transactions Failed settlement, refund, and authorization transactions Successful&nbsp;settlement and authorization&nbsp;transactions captured&nbsp;using Manhattan Active&reg; Omni payment recovery features Process Flow The payment level metrics displayed on the dashboard are captured in real time when certain&nbsp;payment transactions are marked as&nbsp;closed and completed based on the payment gateway response. This data is then&nbsp;aggregated in a metrics table in the payment component. The aggregation model contains a metric name and a key-value pairing for the different payment metric breakdowns. Every metric is grouped by the date that the payment header was created to maintain the relationship of each money amount the metrics represent. The payment transactional data is compiled into a table for retrieval from the facade layer to the UI in the below structure: Name Description metricName The identifier for the metric displayed in the UI. For example, TotalSales, TotalRefundFailures, and so on. metricKey The key of the metric used to specify which data to retrieve for the dashboard. Used for differentiating different values that fall under the same metricName. For example, PaymentMethod=Credit Card. metricValue Value for each individual metricName and metricKey combination. This can represent a sum of values or a percentage. metricDate The date a particular metric corresponds to. Derived from the created date of the payment header where the payment transactional data is aggregated from. Payment&nbsp;Dashboard Metrics Sales The sales tab of the dashboard provides a money amount for how much was collected on a particular day or range of days. This is driven by completed settlement transactions that were successfully executed to the payment gateway or captured in the store. Metric Name Description Total Sales The total amount of successful settlement transactions aggregated for date range. This includes all executed settlements and does not include settlements copied as part of return and exchange payment processing. Sales by Payment Method A subset of total sales, broken into the amount collected by each payment type, derived from the payment type Id on the payment method. This is displayed in two ways, a donut with percentages, and a list of each payment type. The total of each amount here is equal to the Total Sales metric. Sales by Source A subset of total sales, broken into the amount collected by each selling channel. In most cases, the selling channel of the order is the same as the selling channel on the payment, however, if for example, the order is captured in contact center, but the payment is captured using pay by link, the source on the dashboard will be Digital Self-Service instead of Call Center. Except in the event of a custom selling channel, the sales by source metric will contain one of the following values: Web Contact Center Digital Self-Service Store Example 1: Order is captured online on Jan 1st. A $100 credit card authorization is provided with the order Order is fulfilled and payment is settled&nbsp;successfully for $100 on Jan 5th Total Sales, $100, Jan 1st Sales by Payment Method - Credit Card, $100, Jan 1st Sales by Source - Web, $100, Jan 1st Example 2: Order is captured in contact center on Jan 1st. A pay by link email is sent, and the customer uses Digital Self-Service to add a debit card to authorize for&nbsp;$50. Order is fulfilled and payment is settled successfully for $50 on Jan 3rd. Total Sales, $50, Jan 1st Sales by Payment Method - Debit Card, $50, Jan 1st Sales by Source - Digital Self-Service, $50. Jan 1st Payment Failures Metric Name Description Total Failed Payments The total amount of authorization and settlement transactions which were marked as closed and failed by the payment gateway. For transactions which are retried unsuccessfully multiple times, the failed amount is still only counted once. Total Failed Refunds The total amount refund transactions which were marked as closed and failed by the payment gateway. Payments by Failure Type Authorization and settlement failures are a breakdown of the total failed payments. Refund failures is the same as total failed refunds.&nbsp; Failures by Payment Method A breakdown of total failed payments and total failed refunds by the payment type the failed transaction belongs to. Example 1: Order is captured online on Jan 1st. A $100 credit card authorization is provided with the order Order is fulfilled and the settlement request to the gateway fails on Jan 3rd Total Failed Payments, $100, Jan 1st Payments by Failure Type - Settlement Failure, $100, Jan 1st Failures by Payment Method - Credit Card, $100, Jan 1st Example 2:&nbsp; Order is captured in contact center on Jan 1st. The agent captures the customers&#39; debit card to authorize $50 using hosted checkout. The authorization request is sent&nbsp;to the payment gateway, which returns a failure&nbsp;response. Total Failed Payments, $50, Jan 1st Payments by Failure Type - Authorization Failure, $50, Jan 1st Failures by Payment Method - Debit Card, $50, Jan 1st Payment Recoveries Metric Name Description Total Payments Recovered $ The total amount of authorization and settlement transactions executed by auto-retry functionality or captured by digital self-service payment recovery for a day or range of days. Total Payments Recovered % The percentage of failed payments for a day or range of days that was recovered by payment recovery features. Total payments recovered % = total failed payments / total payments recovered $.&nbsp; Recovery Status - Recovered The same value as the total payments recovered $. Recovery Status - Unrecovered The amount of payment failures for a day or range of days that has not been recovered. Unrecovered = total failed payments - total payments recovered $. Authorization Recovery The total authorization amount recovered using payment recovery features. Broken down into a bucket for authorizations recovered via auto-retry and self authorization payment recovery. Settlement Recovery The total settlement amount recovered using payment recovery features. Broken down into a bucket for settlements recovered via auto-retry and self-service payment recovery. Example 1: Order is captured in contact center on Jan 1st. The agent captures the customers&#39; credit&nbsp;card using hosted checkout and authorizes it for $100. Order is fulfilled and the settlement request to the gateway fails on Jan 3rd Total Failed Payments, $100, Jan 1st Payments by Failure Type - Settlement&nbsp;Failure, $100, Jan 1st Failures by Payment Method - Credit&nbsp;Card, $100, Jan 1st Settlement is auto-retried and the payment gateway sends a success response on Jan 4th Total Sales, $100, Jan 1st Sales by Payment Method - Credit Card, $100, Jan 1st Sales by Source - Contact Center, $100, Jan 1st Total Payments Recovered $, $100, Jan 1st Recovery Status - Recovered, $100, Jan 1st Recovery Status - Unrecovered, -$100, Jan 1st Settlement Recovery - Auto-Retry, $100, Jan 1st Example 2: Order is captured online on Jan 1st. A $50 credit card authorization is provided with the order. The authorization expires on Jan 8th, a re-authorization request is sent to the payment gateway and a failure response is sent. The authorization is retried 3 times per auto-retry configuration but all 3 attempts fail. Total Failed Payments, $50, Jan 1st Payments by Failure Type - Authorization&nbsp;Failure, $50, Jan 1st Failures by Payment Method - Credit&nbsp;Card, $50, Jan 1st A payment recovery email is sent to the customer to submit new payment, customer enters a debit card which gets successfully authorized for $50&nbsp; Total Payments Recovered $, $50, Jan 1st Recovery Status - Recovered, $50, Jan 1st Recovery Status - Unrecovered, -$50, Jan 1st Authorization&nbsp;Recovery - Digital Self-Service, $50, Jan 1st Order is fulfilled and settled successfully for $50 Total Sales, $50, Jan 1st Sales by Payment Method - Debit Card, $50, Jan 1st Sales by Source - Digital Self-Service, $50. Jan 1st Payment Source Tracking There are a few metrics on the dashboard that are dependent on&nbsp;tracking of the payment method source. These leverage the field &quot;CapturedSource&quot; on the payment method object. To most accurately track dashboard metrics, it is recommended that the origin system populate this field when sending payment method details.&nbsp;When left blank, the dashboard will track the source of these payments as the selling channel of the corresponding&nbsp;order.&nbsp;In some cases this will have the same result from a dashboard perspective, e.g. orders captured with payment&nbsp;via Web. In some cases, however, the selling channel of the order and the captured source of the payment may differ, resulting in less accurate dashboard metrics. In the rare case that the selling channel of the order is not populated, the source of the payment will default to &quot;Web&quot;. If payment capture is done using one of the following channels, the source of the payment method will be automatically tracked: Manhattan POS Manhattan Contact Center - base hosted checkout Manhattan Digital Self-Service - base hosted checkout If payment capture is done using one of the following channels, the source of the payment method will NOT be automatically tracked, and the source of the payment method will be treated as the order selling channel to populate the dashboard metrics: Any external order/payment capture system Manhattan Contact Center - custom hosted checkout Manhattan Digital Self-Service - custom hosted checkout Configuration Grants To access the Payment Health&nbsp;Dashboard, the user should have access to the following grants: inventoryfacade::paymenthealthdashboard::view&nbsp;This will give the user, a menu option to access the dashboard. api::inventoryfacade::insightsmetrics&nbsp;The user should have access to this grant to load and view the dashboard. Implementation Flavors Track source&nbsp;data when using a custom hosted checkout If a user exit or iFrame has been implemented to integrate with a hosted checkout payment provider that is not supported by base, the output of the user exit containing the new payment method to be added should populate the &quot;CapturedSource&quot; as either &quot;CallCenter&quot; or &quot;Digital Self-Service&quot;, depending on which source it originated from. This will result in the most accurate dashboard metric tracking. Related Articles FraudHow Payment Processing WorksOther Transaction TypesPayment FailuresPayment Gateway IntegrationeInvoice SettlementInvoicing and Sales PostingPayment Schedulers & Batch ProcessingAuthorizationRest APIs and User ExitsPayment OverviewPayment TypesRefundsCapturing PaymentTesting & Troubleshooting Payment