# Payment

**Permalink:** payment-configuration-2
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Order Management/UI Help/Order Selling/Payment
**Content Length:** 39,922 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:00:04.236446

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Order Management››UI Help››Order Selling ››Payment Payment The payment component is an important part of an order transaction. The payment process is initiated at different instances during the order cycle such as authorization, settlement and refunds. The data populated in the order system is used to determine the type of payment transactions used to process the orders. The following configurations are essential for the payment process to be successful. Enabling PaymentPayment TypesConfiguring Pre-paid Payment TypesConfiguring Custom Payment TypesConfigure Card Types Configuring Payment ProcessConfiguring Payment ParametersConfiguring Payment RulePayment Type ConfigurationPayment Scheduling ConfigurationInvoice on PaidExecute Payment TransactionShipment Invoice ConfigurationReturn Invoice ConfigurationConfiguring Sales PostingConfiguring SimulatorPayment HeaderEnabling Payment Auto-RetriesEnabling Settlement Failures and Reminder - Pay By LinkEnabling Authorization Failures and Reminder - Pay By LinkEnabling Refund Failures and Reminder - Refund By LinkEnabling Auto Write-offEnabling Suspend Payment Method On Partial Settlement FailureConsolidate Refund TransactionsEnabling Charge BackPay by Link Reminder and Unconfirmed Orders CancellationPay by Link Auto Confirm ConfigurationPay by Link and Refund by Link Reminder Threshold Configuration Pay by Link Unconfirmed Order Cancel Threshold Configuration Enabling Payment Order Configuration allows you to enable or disable the payment processing. The order capturing system creates and publishes the invoice after enabling the payment check box. Refer to Enabling Payment Capabilities for more information. To enable price settings in the order configuration page, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Configurations. Click General tab, select the Payment check box. Payment Types The Payment Types page enables you to add or remove payment methods. It also allows you to update the settings for a payment type. The different payment types are listed as follows: Pre-paid Custom Refund Card Type Refer to Payment Types for details. Configuring Pre-paid Payment Types The pre-paid attribute in the payment type indicates whether the payment process is to be considered as pre-paid or not. For example cash transaction is considered as a pre-paid payment type. To configure pre-paid payment type, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Selling Configuration > Payment > Payment Types. Click Add to add a pre-paid payment type. Enter the payment type ID. For example Cash or Credit Card. Enter the name and description for the payment type. Select the Prepaid check box. Click Save. Configuring Custom Payment Types Custom payment type is configured by the user based on requirement. To configure custom payment type, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Selling Configuration > Payment > Payment Types. Click Add to add a custom payment type. Enter the payment type ID. For example, Coupons or point. Enter the name and description for the custom payment type. Click Save. Configure Card Types Card types can be added, edited, or removed, based on the list of card types which should be displayed to customer service. To configure card types, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Selling Configuration > Payment > Payment Card Types. Click Add to add a payment card type. Enter card type ID. For example, Amex or Visa. Enter the name and description of the card type. Click Save. Configuring Payment Process The payment process configuration involves configuring payment parameters, payment rules and the payment type configuration. Configuring Payment Parameters The payment parameters are primarily used to configure the following: refund or reverse authorization hold orders in case of fraud To configure payment parameters, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Selling Configuration > Payment > Payment Parameters. Click Add to add the payment parameters. Enter the ID and description for the payment parameter. Select the Refund Before Reverse Auth check box, to refund the amount that is already settled or to reverse the remaining authorized amount, when the amount due decreases for an order. Enter the fraud hold type attribute to hold the order when the payment gateway indicates that a payment is fraud. Enter the scheduled transaction hours and refund age, if required. Enable the other parameters as required and click Save. Note: Payment Parameter is a global configuration and cannot have multiple configurations. Configuring Payment Rule The payment rule is used to choose a payment configuration and a payment gateway for each payment method. To configure payment rule, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu >Application Configuration > Manage Selling Configuration > Payment > Payment Rules. Click Add to add payment rules. In the Details tab, enter the Id and description for the payment rule. Select the payment type from the Payment Type drop-down list. Enter the card type and order type ID. Select the payment configuration from the Payment Type Config drop-down list. In the Payment Rule Gateway tab, click Add. In the Payment Rule Gateway screen, select the gateway from the Gateway drop-down list, and then click Save to save the payment rule gateway. In the Add Payment Rule screen, click Save. Payment Type Configuration The payment type configuration is a unique set of parameters required for processing the payments. The Payment Type Configs page enables you to configure the following parameters. Valid for return Authorization required Advanced authorization required Authorization expiry Settlement expiry Number of attempts Charge sequence Refund sequence To set the payment type configuration, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Selling Configuration > Payment > Payment Configuration. In the Payment Type Configs page, click Add. Enter the payment type configuration ID. For example, Cash Configuration. Enter the Charge sequence and Refund Sequence values. Select the Valid for Refund check box to indicate that the payment type is valid for refund. Enter the number of attempts. Enter the Authorization expiration days after which authorization will not take place. Enter the settlement expiration days after which settlement will not take place. Select the Authorization Required check box to indicate authorization is required for the payment type. Select the Advanced Auth Required check box to indicate advanced authorization is required for the payment type. Click Save. Payment Scheduling Configuration Payment configuration feature controls processing of payment for completely fulfilled orders. Refer to Payment Schedulers for details. To set the payment scheduling configuration, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Configuration. Select the General tab. In the Payment section, select the Process Payment Immediately on Complete Shipment check box. Invoice on Paid This feature enables you to generate the shipment invoice once the order payment status is updated to paid, resulting in generating invoices according to the payment life cycle rather than the fulfillment life cycle. Refer here for more details. To configure invoice on paid, perform the following steps: 1.    Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Configuration. 2.    Select the General tab. In the Payment section, select the Invoice on Paid check box. Execute Payment Transaction A common scenario that a CSR faces is capturing payment details over a call, and the possibility of the call getting disconnected before the confirmation of an order. In this case, if the payment gets processed, the CSR must initiate a manual refund process. To overcome this, it is required to hold the execution of payment transactions before the order is confirmed. The Call Center Configuration page enables you to hold the payment transaction till the order is confirmed. To execute payment transaction, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Manage Call Center Configuration > Call Center Configuration. In the Call Center Configuration page, select the Default Config and click View. In the Details tab, select the Hold Payment Transaction Till Confirmation check box to hold execution of payment transactions till the order is confirmed. Shipment Invoice Configuration The Invoice Generation feature provides the ability for the retailers to generate shipment invoices for order statuses for each delivery method. It supports invoicing on shipment of last merge leg for ship to store or merge orders. Note: Physical origin will fall back to the source location when the invoice is created upon shipment of last merge leg. The Order Configuration page enables the invoicing on shipment of last merge leg for the following delivery methods. Ship to Address Ship to Store To configure invoicing on shipment of last merge leg, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Configuration. Select the General tab. In the Payment section, choose the required option: Select Shipment of Last Merge Leg for Ship to Store to trigger creation of shipment invoice on shipment of last merge leg. Note that, on selecting this option, the Ship to Store drop-down will be disabled. Select Shipment of Last Merge Leg for Ship to Address to trigger creation of shipment invoice on shipment of last merge leg. Note that, on selecting this option, the Ship to Address drop-down will enable you to select the fulfillment status => fulfilled. Note: The above configurations profoundly hinge on the assumption that the odds of reallocation for already invoiced quantities to another fulfillment source due to short reallocation in subsequent legs is not anticipated. If short reallocation in subsequent legs results in already invoiced quantities being reallocated to DC or Store other than what was recorded in the existing Invoice, the existing invoice will not be modified to reflect this change, which means there will be an inconsistency between invoice details and physical reality in respect to the below mentioned details. Package Ids mentioned on the Invoice and package Ids delivered to customer. Jurisdiction and invoice tax in case of source-based taxation. Physical origin Id on the invoice and physical origin Id of actual shipment (hence it is not advisable to use invoice published in sales posting to account for inventory in downstream systems). Any custom attributes on invoice populated when the invoice is generated (for example, item serial numbers, gift card numbers, etc.). Return Invoice Configuration The Order Configuration page enables you to configure the return invoices for Ship to Return Center delivery method for the below-mentioned statuses. Carrier Scanned Returned To configure invoicing, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Configuration. Select the General tab. In the Payment section, choose the required option for the Ship to Return Center delivery method. Note: If Carrier Scanned status is selected for the return invoicing, the system will automatically track the return label's tracking number with the respective carrier to move the quantities of return lines to Carrier Scanned status automatically. Configuring Sales Posting Sales posting is invoice related information that is published to the audit systems to process the transactions. The sales posting can be published in real time or scheduled over a period and can be published in multiple formats.  Refer to Sales Posting for details. To select the sales posting template, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Configuration. Click General tab. In the Sales Posting section, select a template from the Publish Sales Posting Template drop-down list. Select a sales posting format from the Sales Posting Format drop-down list. Configuring Simulator The Payment simulator configuration enables you to test the payment process behavior with a third-party payment such as CyberSource. It enables you to test the process of the system before integrating it with the real payment processor. Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Selling Configuration > Payment > Payment Simulators. Click Add to configure a new simulator rule. In the Add Payment Simulator Rule page, enter the value for required fields. Click Save. Payment Header Payment Header enables you to track changes in payment details for orders. Navigate to Menu > Payment Header from the Home screen to access Payment Header UI. You can view the payment records in the Payment Header UI. Each payment record displays the details such as Order ID, Payment Group ID, Payment Status Name, Customer ID, and so on. Select the Payment record and click Details to display the payment methods and payment audit details. Click Payment Method to view the payment method details such as Payment Method Id, Payment Type ID, Account Display Number, Amount, Current Auth Amount, Current Failed Amount, Current Settled Amount, and Current Refund Amount. Click Payment Audit to view the payment audit details such as changed parameters, old value, new value, entity name, business key, business key value, Trace ID, Service ID, Span ID, and Path URL Enabling Payment Auto-Retries The Payment Type Configuration page enables you to configure retry failure, which allows payment recovery from payment failures that include authorization, settlement and refund failures. To enable authorization and settlement retry: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Selling Configuration > Payment > Payment Configuration. Select the desired payment type config and click View. Select 'Retry Authorization Or Settlement Failure' and click Save. Note: This configuration is not supported for Gift Card payment methods processed through Manhattan Active Point of Sale To enable refund retry: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Selling Configuration > Payment > Payment Configuration. Select the desired payment type config and click View. Select Refund 'Retry Refund Failure' and click Save. The Payment Type Configuration page also enables you to configure a number of retry attempts, Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Selling Configuration > Payment > Payment Configuration. Select the desired payment type config and click View. Specify the 'Number of Attempts' (Retry count) value and click Save. Note: To customize the number of payment retries, modify the 'RemainingAttempts' in the first settlement transaction, which overrides the base 'Number of Attempts' config. Enabling Settlement Failures and Reminder - Pay By Link The Settlement Failure PayByLink option enables you to get a new payment method from the customer when there is a settlement failure. Refer Settlement Retry for more information. Sync Order Config: POST {{url}}/order/api/order/modTypeConfig/sync { "data": [ { "OrderConfigId": "defaultConfig", "ModTypes": [ { "Messages": null, "ModTypeId": "Order::Payment::SettlementRetriesFailed" } ] } ] } Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Configuration. In the Modification Rules tab, for Settlement Retries Failed mod type, Select Publish Email and Publish Text options as 'PayByLink for Settlement Failure' for Pay by Link recovery. Select Publish Email and Publish Text options as 'PayByLink for Settlement Recovery Reminder' for Pay by Link recovery reminder. Note: In case of orders across multiple organization, the child org should have the SettlementRecoveryPayByLink template to receive the email. Enabling Authorization Failures and Reminder - Pay By Link The Authorization Failure PayByLink option enables you to get a new payment method from the customer when there is an authorization failure. Refer Authorization Retry for more information. Sync Order Config: POST {{url}}/order/api/order/modTypeConfig/sync { "data": [ { "OrderConfigId": "defaultConfig", "ModTypes": [ { "Messages": null, "ModTypeId": "Order::Payment::AuthorizationRetriesFailed" } ] } ] } Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Configuration. In the Modification Rules tab, for Authorization Retries Failed mod type, Select Publish Email and Publish Text options as 'PayByLink for Authorization Failure' for Pay by Link recovery. Select Publish Email and Publish Text options as 'PayByLink for Authorization Recovery Reminder' for Pay by Link recovery reminder. Enabling Refund Failures and Reminder - Refund By Link The Refund Failure RefundByLink option enables you to get a new payment method from the customer when there is an refund failure. Refer to Refund Retry for more information. Sync Order Config: POST {{url}}/order/api/order/modTypeConfig/sync { "data": [ { "OrderConfigId": "defaultConfig", "ModTypes": [ { "Messages": null, "ModTypeId": "Order::Payment::RefundRetriesFailed" } ] } ] } Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Configuration. In the Modification Rules tab, for Refund Retries Failed mod type, Select Publish Email and Publish Text options as 'RefundByLink for Refund Failure' for RefundByLink. Select Publish Email and Publish Text options as 'RefundByLink for Refund Failure Reminder' for RefundByLink. Enabling Auto Write-off This configuration helps to auto write off the open balance due on the order after a configured number of days from the payment recovery email was sent to the customer if the balance due has still not been collected. Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Configuration>General>Automatic Write-Off Enter the number of days after which open balance due on the order will be written off. Enabling Suspend Payment Method On Partial Settlement Failure The Payment Type Configuration page enables you to configure the suspend payment method on partial settlement failure, which allows suspending of payment method in case of a partial settlement failure. To enable authorization and settlement retry: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Selling Configuration > Payment > Payment Configuration. Select the desired payment type config and click View. Select 'suspendOnPartialFailure' and click Save. Consolidate Refund Transactions The Consolidate Refund Transactions feature enables you to consolidate all refunds into a single transaction on the new refund method. Refer Refunds for more information. To configure consolidate refund transactions, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Selling Configuration > Payment > Payment Parameters. Click Add to add a new payment parameter or select the existing payment parameter configuration and click View. Select the Consolidate Refund Transactions check box and click Save to consolidate all refunds into a single transaction on the new refund method, irrespective of how many settlements are present on the parent order. Note that this is applicable only for "New payment method" refund behavior and not for follow-on refund behavior. Enabling Charge Back Configuring a payment type as eligible for charge back allows the system to refund returns on carrier scanned status and create a charge back invoice in case the verified quantity is less than the quantity for which the customer was refunded on carrier scan. Refer to Charge Back Invoice for more details. To configure a payment type as eligible for charge back, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Selling Configuration > Payment > Payment Configuration. Select the desired payment type config and click View. Select the Eligible For Chargeback check box and click Save. Pay by Link Reminder and Unconfirmed Orders Cancellation Pay by Link Auto Confirm Configuration This enables you to configure auto confirmation time for the Pay by Link order. Refer here for more details. To configure auto confirmation time for the Pay by Link order, perform the following steps: Navigate to the Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration >  Order Parameters In the Order Parameters UI, select the required parameters and click Details. On the Order Parameter Details page, enter Auto Confirm PBL Order After time in minutes, after which the orders will be auto confirmed provided the payment is added. Click Save. Pay by Link and Refund by Link Reminder Threshold Configuration This feature enables you to configure a reminder threshold for Pay by Link order. Refer here for more details. To configure the Pay by Link order reminder threshold, perform the following steps: Navigate to the Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration >  Order Parameters In the Order Parameters UI, select the required parameter and click Details. On the Order Parameter Details page, enter PaybyLink Remainder Threshold in hours, after which a reminder will be sent to the customer to make the payment. Click Save. Pay by Link Unconfirmed Order Cancel Threshold Configuration This enables you to configure the cancel threshold for Pay by Link unconfirmed orders. Refer here for more details. To configure the Pay by Link order cancel threshold, perform the following steps: Navigate to the Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration >  Order Parameters In the Order Parameters UI, select the required parameter and click Details. On the Order Parameter Details page, enter PaybyLink Order Cancel Threshold in hours, after which the unconfirmed orders will be eligible for cancellation. Click Save.