# Planned Demand

**Permalink:** planned-demand
**Content Length:** 14,620 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:37:44.984281

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process &amp; Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Replenishment&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Factors affecting SOQ ››Planned Demand Planned Demand Previous&nbsp;I&nbsp; OverviewProcess FlowConfigurationHow to configure Planned DemandImplementation FlavorsServicesTroubleshootingRelated Articles Overview Planned demand refers to the ability to procure additional quantities of an item.&nbsp; Examples:- Planned Promotions: Businesses often plan promotional activities such as sales events, seasonal offers, or marketing campaigns. Planned demand allows them to purchase additional quantities of products needed for these promotions. This ensures that there is enough inventory available to meet the expected increase in demand during the promotional period. Meeting Specific Customer Requests: Sometimes, customers may place large or special orders that exceed normal demand patterns. Planned demand enables businesses to anticipate and fulfill these specific customer requests without impacting the regular on-hand quantities intended for everyday sales. Managing Separate Inventory: To execute planned promotions or fulfill specific customer requests efficiently, businesses may temporarily segregate or earmark inventory. This helps in tracking and managing these additional quantities separately from the regular stock intended for routine sales. Temporary Nature of Planned Demand: Planned demand is often a temporary adjustment to normal inventory management. Once the promotion or specific customer request is fulfilled, inventory levels can return to normal, ensuring that regular customers continue to receive their expected service levels without interruption. In summary, planned demand provides businesses with the flexibility to proactively manage and allocate inventory for planned promotions or unique customer needs while maintaining consistency in supply for regular customers. Process Flow Create Planned Demand:&nbsp;Planned Demand will be configured in DF. &nbsp; Planned Demand Policy stores the header level planned demand information. Users can&nbsp;set-up Adiditional Demand Quantity&nbsp;and&nbsp;Additional Demand Percent. Demand value can either be a positive or negative value. Planned Demand in SOQ Computation:: Replenishment calculates the total additional demand by multiplying the regular daily forecast by the Additional Demand Percent during the planned demand period In addition if the Additional Demand Quantity is greater than zero, then the additional demand quantity is added to the forecasted demand to get the total demand. When the Additional Demand Quantity is used , Replenishment&nbsp;spreads the total demand evenly across the planned period. When Additional Demand Percent is used, Replenishment calculates the daily additional demand as a multiple of the daily forecast which considers the possible seasonal and day-of-week profiles. The quantity of planned demand will be evenly spread out each day during the start-end time duration of the IO system. &nbsp; Forecast SOQ Planned Demand Qty Planned Demand Percentage Period Final SOQ 70 100 20 &nbsp; 20/05/2024 - 26/05/2024 120 70 100 30 10 20/05/2024 - 26/05/2024 137 70 100 30 10 20/05/2024- 02/06/2024 144 70 100 -20 &nbsp; 17/05/2024 - 23/05/2024 80 70 100 20 &nbsp; 05/08/2024 - 11/08/2024 120(Projected) 70 100 -30 -10 05/08/2024 - 11/08/2024 63(Projected) 70 100 50 15 05/08/2024 - 11/08/2024 161(Projected) 70 100 50 15 05/08/2024 - 18/08/2024 171(Projected) Configuration How to configure Planned Demand Planned Demand&nbsp;can be configured at Item location Level. This is setup as Additional Demand Quantity or Additional Demand Percent between specified dates. Step 1: Create a Planned Demand Policy A Planned Demand Policy has to be created in order to store the Planned Demand details. Each policy can have multiple Planned Demands configured. {{url}}/ai-forecast/api/ai-forecast/plannedDemandPolicy/save { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;PlannedDemandPolicyId&quot;:&quot;PlannedDemand_1&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;Description&quot;: &quot;TestPlannedDemand&quot; } &nbsp; Step&nbsp;2: Create Planned Demand {{url}}/ai-forecast/api/ai-forecast/plannedDemand { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;PlannedDemandPolicyId&quot;: &quot;PlannedDemand_1&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ItemId&quot;: &quot;Item1&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;LocationId&quot;: &quot;StoreLocation1&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;StartDate&quot;: &quot;2020-02-04&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;EndDate&quot;: &quot;2020-04-10&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;AdditionalQuantity&quot;: 10, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;AdditionalPercent&quot; : 5 } &nbsp; Implementation Flavors NA Services The&nbsp;APIs listed in the following table are referenced in this document. Refer to the API documentation for additional details on&nbsp;each service. Feature Service Component Service Endpoint Planned Demand Policy Planned Demand itemLocation {{url}}/ai-forecast/api/ai-forecast/plannedDemandPolicy/save Planned Demand Planned Demand itemLocation {{url}}/ai-forecast/api/ai-forecast/plannedDemand &nbsp; Troubleshooting NA Related Articles Manual MaximumManual Minimum Review CycleMinimum Purchase QuantityOrder Pack OptimizationLead TimeBuying MultipleOrder Point AdjustmentConvenience PackCommitted Quantity