# Manhattan Active® Platform Release Notes for Omni 24.4

**Permalink:** platform-release-notes-for-omni-24.4
**Path:** Home/Release Notes/Manhattan Active® Omni/2024/Manhattan Active® Platform Release Notes for Omni 24.4
**Content Length:** 27,105 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:51:43.961812

---

Home››Release Notes››Manhattan Active® Omni››2024 ››Manhattan Active® Platform Release Notes for Omni 24.4 Manhattan Active® Platform Release Notes for Omni 24.4 Release date: October 4,  2024 Manhattan AssistOn-Demand Chat Agent EnhancementsManhattan ProActiveDependency Visibility for API Extension PointsStreamlined Extension Pack Deployment with New Guided WizardExtensions DashboardRoute Level LoggingExtension Pack EnhancementsManage Deployment - Expanded SupportExtension Pack RollbackMulti-User SupportExtension Pack Export - DeprecatedManhattan Assist: Extension Pack Change SummaryManhattan Assist: Extension Handler SummarizationPlatform Framework EnhancementsFiltering Dates by Quick SelectFilter Layout PersonalizationBatch Job UIs Saving at the Final StepSCI for Manhattan Active® OmniNew ReportsAgent Performance ReportMissed SLA By Interaction TypePackage Updates The following features are available in the Manhattan Active® Platform 24.4 release. Manhattan Assist On-Demand Chat Agent Enhancements The Manhattan Assist on-demand chat agent is enhanced with the following changes: Enhanced Language Support: Manhattan Assist now supports multiple languages, automatically adapting to the language you use in Manhattan Active. Improved Contextual Understanding: Manhattan Assist has been enhanced to better comprehend the intent behind your inquiries. Even if your query falls outside its current scope (product documentation and developer hub) or if no matching results are found, you will receive more relevant and helpful responses. We are actively working to expand Manhattan Assist's scope in upcoming releases, so you can anticipate even more capabilities in the future. We invite you to utilize the feedback tools available within Assist to share your thoughts and experiences. Your input directly contributes to the continuous enhancement of Manhattan Assist's response quality and scope. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Manhattan Assist User Guide Manhattan ProActive Dependency Visibility for API Extension Points The extension pack builder now displays the list of dependent extensions during the creation of an extension handler for a user exit or event. This provides insight into which extension handlers already implement the selected extension point. Understanding these dependencies empowers you to make informed decisions about the selected extension point during development. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Extension Pack Builder Streamlined Extension Pack Deployment with New Guided Wizard The extension pack deployment process is now easier and more intuitive with a new step-by-step wizard. This wizard guides you through each stage of deployment, including: Target Profile Selection: Easily choose the specific profiles where you want to deploy your extension pack. Deployment Parameter Configuration: Set key parameters like the date and time for deployment. Config Pack Mapping: Streamline your workflow by mapping config packs directly within the deployment process (optional). Deployment Management: Take control of your extension pack deployment with integrated management options (optional). These enhancements, built upon previous improvements, create a seamless and efficient deployment experience which provides visibility and mitigates user errors. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Extension Pack Builder Extensions Dashboard Route Level Logging When accessing the performance tools of the extension pack dashboard details, the option to select a route for performance logging is now available. Users can select all routes or a single route from the drop-down. When logging is enabled, the results returned will include the route selection. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Extensions Dashboard Extension Pack Enhancements Manage Deployment - Expanded Support The Manage Deployment action is now expanded to be available for all versions of the extension pack. Previously, the action was only supported in the active version. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Extension Pack Actions Extension Pack Rollback Extension pack rollback capabilities have been further enhanced by adding support for rollback of UI Desktop extensions. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Extension Pack Rollback Multi-User Support Support has been added allowing multiple users to edit the same extension pack simultaneously. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Extension Pack Export - Deprecated The extension pack export action (which uploaded a copy of the extension pack to a local bucket on the same environment) has been removed and is no longer available. Please download a zip file of the extension pack via the download action. This file can then be imported into additional environments. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Manhattan Assist: Extension Pack Change Summary Manhattan Change Summary revolutionizes the user experience by integrating cutting-edge Generative AI directly into the Manhattan Active® platform. This new assistant, available on the extension pack list page, provides users with insight into the changes that have been made to extension packs over a certain period. Users can access this new assistant to view the changes summary window. Here, the user can choose a period from a drop-down or use the default period of the last 24 hours. All modifications to extension packs within the period will then be viewable in the window. Enablement: This feature is now available and will automatically be enabled as part of the upcoming 25.1 market release. If you would like to opt in early before the 25.1 release, contact Manhattan Associates. Manhattan Assist: Extension Handler Summarization Extension pack handlers can now be summarized within the configurator. By selecting the Generate Handler Summary action, the user can view the details of the handler and its routes summarized. In addition, selection of a route in the configurator pane will highlight the related text in the handler summary pane of the screen. Enablement: This feature was initially released on an opt-in basis in 24.3. It is now automatically enabled as part of this release. Platform Framework Enhancements Filtering Dates by Quick Select Filters that have a date select now have a quick select drop-down available on both the from and to date select fields. These drop-downs allow the user to select an individual value of Today, Tomorrow, Next 7 days, and so on, to define a wide range of the from and to-date values. See below for two additional new quick select options. New Quick Select Options Days from Current Time – Users can specify the number of days from the current date that is displayed. For example, if the date is 8/16/24, the user can select -4 to filter for the day 8/12/24. Similarly, they could select +4 in the to field to filter by the day 8/20/24. Hours from Current Time – Users can specify the number of hours from the current time. It will use the time zone specified on the Manage User record. If the user is in EST, for example, and it is 12:00 PM using the Hours from Current Time option, the user would input +12 to move to the next day. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Filter Layout Personalization Users wishing to save different layouts of the list page filter pane can now save their filter layout to a view. After customizing the filter layout, saving the view upon returning to the screen or changing views, the layout will be reapplied based on the configured settings. This allows users to create one or more views with different layouts to suit their business needs. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Batch Job UIs Saving at the Final Step To avoid scheduling a job before it is fully configured, the job schedule wizard will now only save the job schedule during the final step of the wizard. To be consistent, the job type definition and job configuration wizards will behave similarly. This behavior is applicable for both the create and edit flows. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. SCI for Manhattan Active® Omni The following outlines some notable enhancements to Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Intelligence for Manhattan Active® Omni in version 24.4. New Reports Agent Performance Report This new report allows managers to evaluate the performance of the agent. It typically includes metrics such as response time, resolution rate, and handle time across different interaction types like chat, SMS, and email. Missed SLA By Interaction Type This report analyzes metrics by agent interaction type. It aggregates data across various communication channels such as chat, SMS, and email, providing a comprehensive view of agent effectiveness with respect to Missed SLA and Total requests handled. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Package Updates Table additions are made to the Manhattan Active® Order Management and Manhattan Active® Point of Sale packages for better reporting. These include the Next Up Transaction as a new entity in MA Order Management, and multiple new tables and entities in the Customer Engagement package, such as Agent Interaction Detail for Interactions, Interaction-Cases, Chat Bot Hourly, Interaction SLA, and more. The Order Fulfillment package has been enhanced with the Goal Agg Event Mapping entity and related tables. Additionally, the Utility Package now features Behavior Change entities. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release.