# Manhattan Active® Platform Release Notes for Omni 25.1

**Permalink:** platform-release-notes-for-omni-25.1
**Path:** Home/Release Notes/Manhattan Active® Omni/2025/Release v25.1/Manhattan Active® Platform Release Notes for Omni 25.1
**Content Length:** 36,095 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:51:40.701923

---

Home››Release Notes››Manhattan Active® Omni››2025››Release v25.1 ››Manhattan Active® Platform Release Notes for Omni 25.1 Manhattan Active® Platform Release Notes for Omni 25.1 Release date: January 3, 2025 Manhattan ProActiveManhattan Assist: Extension Pack Change SummaryManhattan Assist: Extension Handler SummarizationExtension Pack Deployment EnhancementsExtension Pack BuilderDatabase Extension EnhancementsColumn LimitationsFile ExtensionsExtension Pack ActionsLive Deploy EnhancementsExtension Pack ComparisonExtension Pack RollbackAction GroupingExtension Pack List PageVisual Editor EnhancementsPlatform Framework EnhancementsPersonalization EnhancementsSharing a view with a group of usersFilter Layout PersonalizationGrid EnhancementsCompact GridRow SelectionColumn PinningAction EnhancementsRight Click ActionsLookupsLookup Auto-CompleteUI Extensions ReferenceCommon ParametersProfile EnhancementsSCI for Manhattan Active® Omni The following features are available in the Manhattan Active® Platform 25.1 release. Manhattan ProActive Manhattan Assist: Extension Pack Change Summary The Manhattan Change Summary transforms the user experience by seamlessly incorporating advanced Generative AI into the Manhattan Active platform. This innovative assistant, accessible from the extension pack list page, offers users a summary of changes made to extension packs over a specified period. Users can open the change summary window to select a time frame from a drop-down menu or use the default setting of the past 24 hours. Any modifications to extension packs within that period will be displayed in the window. Enablement: This feature was initially released on an opt-in basis in 24.4. It is now automatically enabled as part of this release. Related: Audit Summarization Manhattan Assist: Extension Handler Summarization Extension pack handlers can now be summarized within the configurator. By selecting the Generate Handler Summary action, the user can view the details of the handler and its routes summarized. In addition, selection of a route in the configurator pane will highlight the related text in the handler summary pane of the screen. Enablement: This feature was initially released on an opt-in basis in 24.4. It is now automatically enabled as part of this release. Related: Configurator Extension Pack Deployment Enhancements A new action has been added to the Extension Pack Deployments screen which allows for redeployment in the rare occasion that an extension pack fails. Select the record to redeploy and choose the action on the footer to submit the extension pack for redeployment. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Extension Pack Deployments Extension Pack Builder Database Extension Enhancements Database Migration This release introduces a migration utility that provides greater flexibility in how database extensions are handled. Recognizing that attributes initially defined as database columns are sometimes better suited as flexible data attributes, we've implemented a streamlined migration process. How it Works: Within the extension pack, enable the "Migrate Database Extension" feature. Specify the desired migration date. Upon deployment of the extension pack, the system will automatically transition after the specified migration date, the physical database column will be ignored, and the data will be accessed as a JSON attribute. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Database Extensibility Overview Column Limitations Physical database extensions are limited to having only two medium text attributes per component due to the size limitations of the database. The system will now provide a warning to users when this restriction has been exceeded. The user can then instead create a flexible database attribute in the JSON store to meet their customization needs. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Database Extensibility Overview File Extensions The localization file extension type now dynamically loads the list of bundles available to be extended with custom localization text. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Localization Extension Pack Actions Live Deploy Enhancements Extension Packs containing Label and Reports and Response Template File Extensions can now be deployed live for immediate testing of the extension. Access the live deploy action on the extension pack to use this feature. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Extension Pack Actions Extension Pack Comparison This release introduces a significant improvement to Extension Pack Comparison, enabling comprehensive comparisons between different extension packs, whether they reside locally or are imported from another environment. This enhancement provides valuable insights into changes and the delta that will be deployed with a new extension version. You can now directly compare any two extension packs, including: Comparing different versions of the same extension pack to understand changes over time. Comparing different extension packs to identify variations in functionality or configuration. Comparing against imported extension packs, facilitating analysis of changes before deployment in your environment. All comparisons are accompanied by a generative summary of changes which will provide comparison insights. In addition to accessing this feature from the extension pack list page, this feature can also be accessed from the System Menu under the Extension Management Menu. Since no extension pack is initially selected, users must choose both the target and source extension packs for the comparison. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Extension Pack Comparison Extension Pack Rollback We have further enhanced extension pack rollback capabilities by adding support for rollback of the following features: OMNI UI Extensions Desktop UI Extensions including handwritten extensions. Additionally, extensions that have been deployed live can be rolled back via a new action on the Live Deployment Details screen. Please Note: The live deploy details screen has been enhanced to group records to support the rollback feature. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Extension Pack Rollback Live Deploy Action Grouping Action grouping has been implemented on the extension pack list page. When an extension pack is selected, the menu options are now organized into the following categories: Action Group Actions Editing Edit, View, Delete, Copy. Compare Deployment Assign Labels, Attach, Deploy, Live Deploy, Manage Deployment Post-Deployment Cancel Deployment, Live Deploy Details, Manage Deployment, Rollback Logs Validation Report, Deployment Logs Import/Download Download, Import Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Extension Pack Actions Extension Pack List Page The extension pack versions will now show in descending order when the card is expanded on the extension pack list page. Visual Editor Enhancements The ProActive Desktop Visual Editor has been enhanced to allow for the configuration of Action Groups. When adding an action to the action library, users can select the action-group action type. This will add another step to the wizard which will allow the user to define which actions should appear in the menu group. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: UI Extensibility Platform Framework Enhancements Personalization Enhancements Sharing a view with a group of users Users that wish to create a view on a list page now have the ability to share the view with a group of users. Choose the group option under share with others and select the user group for the view. User group types can be configured via the Manage User Group Types configuration. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Filter Layout Personalization Users wishing to save different layouts of the list page filter pane can now save their filter layout to a view. After customizing the filter layout, saving the view upon returning to the screen or changing views, the layout will be reapplied based on the configured settings. This allows users to create one or more views with different layouts to suit their business needs. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Grid Enhancements Compact Grid List screens have been enhanced to be more compact to allow for the viewing of more rows when grid mode is turned on. With this change, users will notice areas of the screen may appear smaller to accommodate the grid changes. This visual change will not affect the functionality of the list screens. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Row Selection Grid rows can now be selected by clicking anywhere in the row in addition to selecting the checkbox of the desired row. Columns that are editable or have a link in them will not select the row. Instead, the user will be able to edit the column cell or be redirected to the link upon selection. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Column Pinning Users can now use a menu available to pin grid columns to the left or right of the grid. In addition, columns can be unpinned after they have been pinned. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Action Enhancements Right Click Actions Actions can now be accessed via a right click menu. Users can right-click on a card or grid view to see the actions available instead of using the action bar or footer menus. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Lookups Lookup Auto-Complete Filter lookup fields now have an auto-complete feature. This feature will display a list of values to the user after typing two characters in the lookup text editor. Users will still be able to click the lookup item and search in more detail for the desired data. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. UI Extensions Reference A new screen is now available under Administrator Tools | Extension Management in the system menu, called UI Extensions Reference. This screen allows users to view the UI Extensions that are configured in the system. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Common Parameters The common parameters screen now provides a drop-down of options for the DateTimeFormat and TimeFormat parameters. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Profile Enhancements A new Skip Update option has been added to the Copy Profile screen which allows the user to select the desired behavior when updating the profile. Skip Update (Checked) will copy data from the source profile to the target and add new records (does not update existing data). Skip Update (Not Checked) will copy all data from the source profile, updating data in the target that may already exist. Data copy will be restricted to a profile with existing data if the skip update is not checked. The default behavior is “Checked” (skip update). SCI for Manhattan Active® Omni Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Intelligence version 25.1 brings a mix of new query subjects and columns. The following outlines some of the notable enhancements to Operational SCI for Manhattan Active® Omni in this release. Some of the most noteworthy features are summarized below. Package Updates Table additions are made to the Order Management and Point of Sale packages for better reporting. These new tables, such as Adjustment Reason T, Adjustment Types T, Inventory Item Location, Inventory Supply Alloc qty, and Backorder Line to the Order Management, Inventory Management packages.  Additionally, the JSON Store column has been added to a few entities. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release.