# Manhattan Active® Platform Release Notes 24.3

**Permalink:** platform-release-notes-24.3
**Path:** Home/Release Notes/Manhattan Active® Omni/2024/Manhattan Active® Platform Release Notes 24.3
**Content Length:** 25,663 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:51:57.673768

---

Home››Release Notes››Manhattan Active® Omni››2024 ››Manhattan Active® Platform Release Notes 24.3 Manhattan Active® Platform Release Notes 24.3 Release date: July 5, 2024 Manhattan Assist: Your AI-Powered Assistant for Manhattan Active®Manhattan ProActiveManhattan Assist: Extension Handler SummarizationAutomatic Extension Coverage Analysis - ImportExtensions DashboardExtension Pack Dashboard AvailabilityExtension Pack EnhancementsPre-validation During DeploymentExtension Pack MaintainerExtension Pack ExportExtension Pack Builder EnhancementsManage Sample DataLanding PagePlatform Framework EnhancementsLinking to the Manhattan Application from any External or Internal ApplicationMatch All on FilterSCI for Manhattan Active® OmniReport UpdatesPackage Updates Manhattan Assist: Your AI-Powered Assistant for Manhattan Active® Manhattan Assist revolutionizes the user experience by integrating cutting-edge Generative AI directly into the Manhattan Active platform. This intelligent assistant empowers users across all roles and functions with rapid, contextual access to the vast knowledge base of Manhattan Active solution documentation and APIs. Key Features and Benefits Manhattan Assist can be accessed in two ways: through an on-demand chat agent and in-built GenAI enablement features, such as summarization action within specific user interface screens. The following are the features and benefits Manhattan Assist provides: Effortless Access: Invoke Assist with a simple click on the icon in the Manhattan Active solution header. Intuitive Guidance: Inline directions and pre-generated questions make using Assist a breeze. Natural Language Understanding: Ask questions in plain English and receive accurate, relevant responses. Comprehensive Knowledge: Assist is trained on the entire knowledge base of your subscribed Manhattan Active solution (Supply Chain Execution or Manhattan Active Omni). Confined Responses: Rest assured that answers are sourced exclusively from official Manhattan product documentation. Query Refinement: Receive suggestions to rephrase questions for optimal results. Follow-Up Mode: Deepen your understanding by asking follow-up questions. Feedback Mechanism: Rate answers and provide feedback to help us continuously improve Assist. Contextual Summarization: Find Assist powered action buttons in targeted User Interfaces which instantly summarize complex configuration or extension code. Empowering Users: Manhattan Assist significantly reduces the time spent searching for information, allowing you to focus on your core tasks. Whether you're a new user learning the ropes or an experienced professional seeking specific details, Assist serves as your personal knowledge navigator. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Manhattan Assist User Guide Manhattan ProActive The following features are available for the Manhattan ProActive® 24.3 release. Manhattan Assist: Extension Handler Summarization Extension pack handlers can now be summarized within the configurator. By selecting the Generate Handler Summary action, the user can view the details of the handler and its routes summarized. In addition, selection of a route in the configurator pane will highlight the related text in the handler summary pane of the screen. Enablement: This feature is now available and will automatically be enabled as part of the upcoming 24.4 market release. If you would like to opt in early before the 24.4 release, contact Manhattan Associates. Automatic Extension Coverage Analysis - Import The system will now analyze extension packs with extension handlers during the import process to ensure that the extension handlers meet the metrics required for import in a production environment. A prompt will now appear that displays the Extension Handler Coverage, Route Coverage, Latency, and Average Request Counts calculated for the extension pack. From here, the user can cancel or proceed with the import. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Extension Pack Coverage Analysis Extensions Dashboard The Extensions Dashboard Metrics tab now supports drill-down to view the extension packs associated with the metric. Upon clicking on the metric on the dashboard, the user will see the extension pack list page filtered by the extension type of the metric that was chosen. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Extensions Dashboard Extension Pack Dashboard Availability The Extension Pack Dashboard can now be accessed within the application from the following locations: The extension pack list page-related links action now includes a link to the Extension Pack Dashboard. When viewing existing extension packs, users can access the Extensions Dashboard via an action on the footer of the screen. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Extensions Dashboard Extension Pack Enhancements Pre-validation During Deployment During deployment, the extension pack will now go through pre-validation to ensure the extension pack meets the requirements for deployment. If the requirements are not met, the user can evaluate the extension pack and then resubmit for deployment. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Extension Pack Rollback The following types of File Extensions are now supported during Extension Pack Rollback: Labels & Reports Mobile Workflows Response Templates Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Extension Pack Rollback Extension Pack Maintainer The term Manhattan Services Extension used on the Extension Pack List Page, Manage Extension Pack Deployment, and Extension Pack Dashboard screens has been updated to now be called Extension Pack Maintainer. Users can choose to filter by Customer or Manhattan Services to narrow down the results displayed based on the Extension Pack Maintainer field. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Extension Pack Export The extension pack export action has been deprecated and will be removed in a future release. It is recommended to download a zip file of the extension pack via the download action. This file can then be imported into additional environments. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Extension Pack Builder Enhancements Manage Sample Data The manage sample data button is now available for extension packs that have been deployed. Use this option to access the configurator for your live deployed extension pack. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Landing Page The landing page actions under the Developer Documentation, Developer Artifacts, and Extension Packs section can be turned on and off via grants. A migration script will run with the 24.3 release to ensure that the actions are enabled after the upgrade. To change the configuration of the actions, see the Developer Hub for more information about the grants. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Developer Hub Prerequisites Platform Framework Enhancements Linking to the Manhattan Application from any External or Internal Application External and Internal applications now have the ability to provide a link to open the Manhattan Application filtered to the specific data requested. For example, a user in the Supply Chain Intelligence (SCI) product can link back to the Manhattan Active Supply Chain product to view specific information related to the data they are viewing in SCI. Additionally, internal and external applications can be accessed from Manhattan Active applications. The proper context will be sent when calling the internal or external application URL. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Match All on Filter Text fields on list pages and lookup screens now support matching all special characters when filtering. The user can turn on the Match All feature by selecting the action available on the text field. When turned on, the filter will no longer treat * as a wildcard character and instead the filter will look for an exact match in the search results. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. SCI for Manhattan Active® Omni Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Intelligence version 24.3 comprises improvements to the existing Manhattan Active SCI Status report and packages. The following outlines some of the notable enhancements to Operational SCI for Manhattan Active® Omni in this release. Some of the most noteworthy features are summarized below. Report Updates The Manhattan Active SCI Status report was enhanced for Reports in 24Hrs and Max Runtime Minutes Per Hour sections. Reports in 24Hrs section are now enhanced for numerical metrics for Interactive and Scheduled reports to capture the number of reports users execute in the SCI instance. Max Runtime Minutes Per Hour section is now enhanced with metrics that provide the highest execution time in minutes per hour for a day and the time interval when it is at its maximum. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Package Updates Table additions are made to the Manhattan Active® Order Management and Manhattan Active® Point of Sale packages for better reporting. These include Bounceback Coupon Detail, Offer Number Tracker, and Offer Nbr Reserved Tracker. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release.