# Platform Updates 24.1

**Permalink:** platform-release-notes-24.1
**Path:** Home/Release Notes/Manhattan Active® Omni/2024/Manhattan Active® Platform Release Notes 24.1
**Content Length:** 26,881 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:52:00.755721

---

Home››Release Notes››Manhattan Active® Omni››2024 ››Platform Updates 24.1 Manhattan Active® Platform Release Notes 24.1 Release Date: 1/5/24 ProActiveExtension Pack ComparisonExtensions DashboardLog Search & Date Time FilteringRoute DetailsExtension Handler Execution SummariesExtension Pack ImportLive Deploy from the ConfiguratorManage DeploymentRollbackAutomatic Routing of External API calls through Manhattan XBound componentExtension Pack ValidationFramework EnhancementsExtension Pack BuilderExtension Handler ProtectionSupply Chain Intelligence ProActive The following features are available for Manhattan ProActive 24.1. Extension Pack Comparison To provide customers with more visibility into the changes made between Extension Pack versions, the ability to compare Extension Packs has been added. Upon selecting an Extension Pack, the new Compare action will now allow you to compare the latest deployed version of the Extension Pack with prior versions to view the changes that have been made. Extensions Dashboard The Extension Details now provides a list of API Extension Points and Extension Handlers in the left pane. Tabs have been added to the right pane. The Overall tab displays graphical information about the selected API Extension Point or Extension Handler. The graphs have been enhanced to provide the user with a better display of information. Log Search & Date Time Filtering The Logs tab now provides the capability to search the logs in order to narrow down the data. In addition, a Date Range can be specified in addition to using paging to find the information you need. Route Details A new details tab has been added to the Extension Dashboard Detail page. This tab displays a graph of the route details for the selected API or Handler. Extension Handler Execution Summaries On the Configurator UI (in the standalone version and in Manage Samples mode within the Extension Builder), there is a new button to view an execution summary for an Extension Handler: Clicking the button will add icons next to each shape: Users can hover over these icons to view the execution summaries. This will show the number of successful and failed executions as well as the average time for success/failure over the last 90 days, both at the Extension Handler level and at the individual service level: If the handler/service executes successfully at least one time, the icon is a green checkmark. If every execution was a failure or if there were no executions at all, the icon is a red warning icon. Whenever the handler is re-saved (either in the standalone version or if a newer version is deployed to the target component), the execution summary will reset because we only show information for the latest version of the Extension Handler. Note: Recording executions at the service level is a relatively new framework feature (released in October 2023). Not all components may have adopted it yet. Until the component has adopted the feature, the service-level execution summary will show that the service was never executed, even if it has been called. Extension Pack Import While importing an Extension Pack, the Extension Pack automatically goes into the Created status. This has now been enhanced to allow customers to choose the status of the Extension Pack during import. This reduces the steps needed to deploy the Extension Pack into production if further changes are not needed. During import, the user will receive a prompt for the import status. From this prompt you can choose to import the Extension Pack in the Created or Ready to Deploy status. Live Deploy from the Configurator In the 23.4 release, the Live Deploy feature was added as an action to the Extension Pack List page. In this release, the Live Deploy feature is now available from the ProActive Configurator. This feature is designed to speed up the development and testing of extensions with business logic changes. To use Live Deploy in the configurator, use the action available on the action bar. Please note that Live Deploy is currently only available in non-production environments. For production environments, you will need to follow the current deployment process which is asynchronous and scheduled. Manage Deployment In previous releases, users could manage the deployment of where extension packs are turned on via the Manage Deployment action on the Extension Pack List Page. With this release, a Manage Deployment button has been added to the Deploy window. Clicking this option will bring up the Manage Deployment screen where the user can once again decide where they would like the Extension Pack enabled. This provides users more visibility into which environments the Extension Pack is active in during the deployment process. We have also enhanced the usability of the Manage Deployment screen. During deployment management, each profile on the screen will now toggle on or off when the user selects the All or Off toggle. When the toggle is selective, you will now see a lock next to profiles you do not have access to. This will allow you to see where the Extension Pack is deployed for profiles that are secured. Rollback We are excited to announce the addition of a new rollback capability for extensions. This feature allows you to roll back an extension to a previous version, which can be useful for a variety of reasons, such as: To recover from a failed deployment or to fix an unexpected bug in the current version of the extension. To revert to a previous version of the extension that includes a specific feature or functionality that is no longer available in the currently deployed version of the extension. To test different versions of the extension to see which version works best for your specific needs. To roll back an extension, simply navigate to the Extension Pack List page, select the extension that you want to roll back, and click the Rollback button. You will then be prompted to select the deployments that you want to roll back and confirm the rollback action. A validation process will occur before the rollback is initiated, and you will be presented with a list of components that will be rolled back. At this time, you can choose to proceed or go back in the process. Extension Type labels are also visible on the rollback screen. The Extension Types indicate how the Extension Pack is configured. For example, when an Extension Pack has User Exits defined, the User Exits labels will appear. This will allow you to see the extension types in the Extension Pack during the rollback process. Note: Only APIs, User Exits, and Events are rolled back for each extension pack. Automatic Routing of External API calls through Manhattan XBound component When configuring a service definition API that is routed through the Manhattan XBound component, the following new actions are now supported: Add from Extension Pack: This action allows you to perform an authentication record lookup to filter by service ID and choose an authentication record that has been configured in the current Extension Pack. Add From Existing: This action allows you to perform an authentication record lookup to filter by service ID and choose an authentication record that has been configured in the system outside the current Extension Pack. Extension Pack Validation When finishing the building of an Extension Pack, upon clicking finish, the new Extension Pack Validation window will appear. In this window, the user will need to choose one or more profiles and select the Validate button to ensure the Extension Pack meets the requirements for deployment. During validation, the Validation status will be updated to success or failure to indicate if the Extension Pack is ready to be deployed to the selected profiles for each extension. This feature is available for Extension Packs that have a Service Definition or Extension Handler configured. Framework Enhancements Extension Pack Builder When entering the Extension Pack Details in the Extension Pack Builder, the Extension Pack Owner has been renamed to Extension Pack Maintainer. Upon making a change to the Extension Pack Maintainer, the user will receive this prompt to ensure the change should be made. Extension Handler Protection On the Configurator UI that exists outside the Extension Builder, users may no longer modify or delete Extension Handlers that were created in the Extension Builder. For these handlers, the save button is disabled: If a user tries to delete one of these handlers, the following message will appear: This feature is enabled in production environments. Supply Chain Intelligence The following is an enhancement to Operational SCI for Manhattan Active® Omni for the 24.1 release: New columns to the Fulfillment entity, namely Fulfillment Is ROPIS and Fulfillment Consider ROPIS Paid, facilitate the Reserve Online Pickup In-Store (ROPIS) feature. ROPIS orders involve customers reserving or holding inventory without upfront payment and picking up the items at the store. These additional columns enable users to generate reports and analyze data, providing insights into this functionality. For more information, refer to the SCI Updates 24.1 section.