# Manhattan Active® Platform Release Notes for Omni 25.3

**Permalink:** platform-release-notes-for-omni-25.3
**Path:** Home/Release Notes/Manhattan Active® Omni/Manhattan Active® Platform Release Notes for Omni 25.3
**Content Length:** 66,831 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:51:29.745897

---

Home››Release Notes››Manhattan Active® Omni ››Manhattan Active® Platform Release Notes for Omni 25.3 Manhattan Active® Platform Release Notes for Omni 25.3 Release date: July 4, 2025 Manhattan AssistContextual, Personalized Knowledge Manhattan ProActive®Manhattan Assist: Audit SummaryManhattan Assist: Extension Pack Technical Specification GenerationPoint of Sale Extensibility: Labels and Reports Point of Sale UI ExtensionsExtension Pack BuilderRegister API DefinitionsExtension Pack Pre-ValidationExtension Pack Profile SelectionDesktop Visual EditorExtension Pack List Page ActionsLive Deploy EnhancementsExtension Pack Import Manage DeploymentExtension Pack DeploymentEnhanced Extension Pack DeploymentConfiguratorEnable/Disable Extension Handler RoutesPlatform Framework EnhancementsConfig Director EnhancementsHonor Selected Org Context in CD 2.0 UI EnhancementsAttribute EnhancementsNull/Empty Boolean SupportDisplay Only CurrencyImage SupportFilter EnhancementsRelated Link FilteringGrid EnhancementsGrid - Client-Side FilteringGrid - Inline EditingUsability EnhancementsPersonalization EnhancementsDetail Screen PersonalizationSCI for Manhattan Active® Supply ChainNew Labor Management ReportsThroughput Trends ReportEmployee Throughput ReportUpdated ReportsActive Status ReportMax Runtime Minutes Per HourPackage Updates The following features are available in the Manhattan Active® Platform 25.3 release. Manhattan Assist Contextual, Personalized Knowledge Narrow Custom Answers by Your Organization, Business Unit, or Facility This feature builds on Manhattan’s earlier release of Manhattan Assist, which allows organizations to supplement the base knowledge repository with custom SOPs, guides, extension documentation, or other proprietary knowledge. This release enables companies to deliver that knowledge by organization, business unit, or facility – a significant benefit when customer knowledge varies by location. For example, if empty pallets are stored by Door 10 in the Atlanta facility, but by the dispatch office in the Dallas facility, a warehouse user in Atlanta asking about empty pallets will be guided to Door 10, ensuring location-specific, accurate information. Related: Manhattan Assist User Guide Manhattan ProActive® Manhattan Assist: Audit Summary In the 25.1 release of Manhattan ProActive the Extension Pack Change Summary feature was introduced. Starting with the 25.3 release, Manhattan ProActive Extension Pack Change Summary will now be found under the Manhattan Assist Audit Summary feature. By accessing the book icon on the Extension Pack list page, you will be able to see the audit summary of changes made to extension packs. The previous sparkle icon used for change summary will no longer be available. Here is an overview of the feature: Quickly Review Recent Configuration Changes This is a practical feature that uses Generative AI to provide quick summaries of recent configuration changes. Instead of manually analyzing audit logs, you can now get an AI-powered overview of configuration modifications. This assistant, initially available on select critical configuration pages within Manhattan Active, provides an audit summary of recent changes to specific configurations. Select the "book" icon to access the audit summary panel and get a quick overview of changes made in selectable timeframes: the last 7 days, 24 hours, 12 hours, or the last hour. Key Capabilities in this Initial Rollout: AI-Powered Audit Summaries: Leverage Generative AI to generate summaries of recent configuration audit history, saving time on manual log reviews. Review Recent Changes: Quickly see configuration changes made within selectable timeframes: the last 7 days, 24 hours, 12 hours, or the last hour. Selective Page Availability: Initially available on specific critical configuration pages within Manhattan Active solutions. Refer to product-specific announcements for details on page availability. Easy Access via Icon: Select the "book" icon to access the audit summary panel and view the AI-powered audit overview. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Manhattan Assist User Guide Manhattan Assist: Extension Pack Technical Specification Generation Generates a PDF document that outlines the technical specifications of a specified extension pack and pack version. This document includes: A brief overview of the extension pack. Detailed technical specifications for each configured extension handler, entity extension, and service definition, presented in plain English. After generation, the document can be downloaded from the notifications window. Enablement: This feature is now available and is planned to be automatically enabled as part of the upcoming 25.4 market release. If you would like to opt in early, contact Manhattan Associates. Point of Sale Extensibility: Labels and Reports The ability to override labels and reports is now available in Manhattan Active Omni. When creating an extension pack, users can select the Labels & Reports tab under File Extensions. From here, users can select a component and upload a new extension template file. This new extension will be available when the extension pack is deployed. Additionally, users can view and download Base and Overridden Templates by accessing Labels and Reports from the Developer Artifacts tile found on the Manhattan ProActive landing page. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Labels & Reports | Omni Point of Sale UI Extensions We’ve added a new format called Handwritten 2.0, which makes it easier to save and manage handwritten content. All this content is now stored in a better-organized way. To streamline UI customization, we've introduced a profile-based entity structure that allows POS UI extensions to be deployed at both the organization and location levels. This provides greater flexibility for users working on multiple extensions. You now have the ability to roll back deployed POS extension packs using the extension pack ID, giving you more control over updates and version management. Additionally, each POS extension configuration is now directly linked to its corresponding extension pack ID for better traceability. Lastly, the POS UI now includes a new Designer mode and Preview feature, offering a proactive design experience that lets you visually build and test extensions before deploying them. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Extension Pack Builder Register API Definitions Configuring an API definition within an extension pack in the extension pack builder now supports the following enhancements: Basic Authentication Type The Basic authentication type has been added as a choice when configuring an API Definition that is an external URL. This is in addition to the already existing OAuth option. When selected configure API Authorization Parameters for basic.username and basic.password to ensure the basic External URL authentication executes as expected. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: API Extensibility with Xbound Authorization | Platform Parameter JSON Path A parameter value starting with "$." is interpreted as a JSON Path. To refer to the root of the payload (e.g., "$"), use the Parameter Json Path field instead of Parameter Value. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Extension Pack Pre-Validation Extension Pack pre-validation now pre-validates UI extensions during the pre-validation process. Enablement: This feature is now available and is planned to be automatically enabled as part of the upcoming 25.4 market release. If you would like to opt in early, contact Manhattan Associates. Related: Extension Pack Builder Extension Pack Profile Selection The profile selection screen available in the Extension Pack Builder and Extension Pack Deployment screens now supports filtering on all available grid columns. This allows users to narrow down the profiles to only those organizations needed for the specified extension pack. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Extension Pack Builder Desktop Visual Editor Added support to the Attribute Library for a new Action Type called bulk-modify. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Desktop Editor | Platform Extension Pack List Page Actions Live Deploy Enhancements The live deploy action can now be used to deploy and view Desktop and Mobile UI Extensions. This allows users to see the UI changes in real time in the staging environment before actual deployment. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Extension Pack Actions Extension Pack Import When importing an Extension Pack that includes stack-level properties, a warning message will be displayed during the import process along with the properties. This screen highlights important configuration details such as external API URLs and database migration dates. The goal is to ensure users are aware of these values when importing an Extension Pack from a different stack so they can update them as needed and avoid potential misconfigurations. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Extension Pack Actions Manage Deployment The Business Units section of the Manage Deployment screen now displays both Organization and Business Unit to the user. This allows for better identification of which business units are being turned on and off for the extension pack deployment. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Extension Pack Actions Extension Pack Deployment Enhanced Extension Pack Deployment Manhattan ProActive® now provides greater control and awareness during extension pack deployments. This enhancement focuses on optimizing deployment timing and providing users with critical information to make informed decisions, especially regarding physical database extensions. Key Enhancements: Intelligent Default Deployment Time: The system now automatically sets the default deployment time for extension packs to a period outside of peak business hours. This minimizes potential disruptions and ensures smoother deployments. Peak Hour Deployment Awareness: When deploying an extension pack, particularly those involving physical database changes, users will now receive a clear warning message if the selected deployment time falls within peak hours. This proactive notification empowers users to make informed decisions and adjust deployment schedules to avoid potential performance impacts during critical operational periods. Enablement: This feature was initially released on an opt-in basis in 25.2. It is now automatically enabled as part of this release. Related: Extension Pack Deployments Configurator Enable/Disable Extension Handler Routes Users can now enable or disable Extension Handlers and routes in ProActive just as they can on the standalone Configurator. On the Configurator toolbar, the Enable/Disable toggle will determine whether the Extension Handler will be invoked while it is deployed. In addition, individual routes can be enabled or disabled using the toggle on the Service Definition panel when the route is selected. This will determine whether the selected route will be called during execution of the Extension Handler. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Configurator Platform Framework Enhancements Config Director Enhancements Honor Selected Org Context in CD 2.0 UI Enhancements Config Director 2.0 UI now honors the Organization, Location, and Business Unit selected by the user on the previous screen. Previously, the UI defaulted to the user's primary organization, ignoring the selected context. This caused the following issues: Filters were saved against the primary org instead of the selected one. Users with admin roles in the selected org (but limited roles in their primary org) were unable to export/import/copy in CD 2.0 due to insufficient permissions. With this enhancement, the selected context is preserved, ensuring filters are saved correctly. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Configuration Director 2.0 Attribute Enhancements Null/Empty Boolean Support Editable boolean fields on the details screen can now be configured to have a third option Null/Empty available in addition to Yes/No. Basic and advanced filtering on the list page will also now allow selection of Yes, No and Null/Empty. Selection of the Null/Empty value will return all records that do not have a value or have a value of NULL specified in the results list for the specified field. Can be configured for multiple or single selection. Enablement: This feature is now available and is planned to be automatically enabled as part of the upcoming 25.4 market release. If you would like to opt in early, contact Manhattan Associates. Related: Attributes | Platform Display Only Currency Attributes can now be defined as type Currency. When configured the display only value of the attribute will display with the referenced currency symbol. Placement of the currency symbol is defined based on the user's locale. Enablement: This feature is now available and is planned to be automatically enabled as part of the upcoming 25.4 market release. If you would like to opt in early, contact Manhattan Associates. Related: Attributes | Platform Image Support The list and detail pages now support the image attribute type. Image will appear next to the attribute on the list page card, in the row column on the list page grid, and also next to the field on the details page in display mode. Users can edit the record to update the image url or source path being used. Click on the image to view a larger preview. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Attributes | Platform Filter Enhancements Related Link Filtering Upon selecting a related link from the Related Links dropdown on a list page, you will be redirected to the page configured. To ensure proper filtering upon navigation from a related, the linked page must have all filter fields visible in the filter pane. Filters that are not visible will be ignored. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Filters Grid Enhancements Grid - Client-Side Filtering Client-side grid filtering has been enhanced to provide a better user experience. Filters will now automatically be applied to the grid as they are made on the filter window. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Filters Grid - Inline Editing Users can now edit grid data directly by clicking on a cell. Pressing Enter will save the changes. Cells that are in rows that do not meet the criteria for editing will be disabled. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Usability Enhancements The tabbed details screen has been enhanced to have a more compact layout. This layout provides the user with the ability to view more information in the header and on the individual tabs. Actions Menu Displays the number of records selected by the user. Is more compact to allow for more actions to be available without scrolling. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Personalization Enhancements Detail Screen Personalization The detail screens now allow users to personalize the layout via the gear icon. The following features of the detail and tabbed detail screens can be personalized: Header Data Related Links Cards or Tabs available Content of sections such as grid columns, etc. After personalization, all changes will be applied to the screen. Please note, however, that users will need to use the save view option off the list page to save the detail personalization to a view for reuse when returning to the screen. Enablement: This feature was initially released on an opt-in basis in 25.2. It is now automatically enabled as part of this release. SCI for Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Intelligence version 25.3 now has a new Throughput Trend Report and Employee Throughput report in Labor Management. In addition, there are a few enhancements and additions to existing packages. This section highlights the updates to the Operational SCI for Manhattan Active® Supply Chain. Some of the most noteworthy features are summarized below. New Labor Management Reports Throughput Trends Report The Throughput Trends Report for Labor Management provides a comprehensive analysis of workforce productivity across facilities, enabling data-driven decisions for operational efficiency. Users can filter the report using a wide range of parameters such as Facility ID, Clock In DateTime Range, and Hierarchy Level with cascading Hierarchy Values. Employee Throughput Report The Employee Throughput report analyzes the volume of work completed by employees across selected facilities and timeframes. It includes filters for Facility ID, Clock In DateTime Range, and Facility Timezone to ensure accurate data. Optional selections for Hierarchy Level, Supervisor, Shift, and User allow detailed breakdowns. Updated Reports Active Status Report The Long Running Reports section within the Active Status Report has been enhanced with new threshold limits for both interactive and scheduled reports. Interactive reports are now visually classified based on runtime. Max Runtime Minutes Per Hour A new tier-based threshold system has been introduced for evaluating Max Runtime Minutes Per Hour, offering a scalable approach to monitor overall report execution time. The thresholds are divided by tier levels (Tier 1 to Tier 4) with corresponding color codes. For example, Tier 1 is green up to 112 minutes, yellow from 113–150 minutes, and red beyond 151 minutes. Package Updates Multiple query subjects are added to the existing MAWM and MATM packages to support enhanced reporting. The MAWM packages mainly include entities, Employee Absence, Element Strategy for Summary Detail, Opti Request, Document Manager for Shipment, and Location To LPN Size Type have been added to Performance and Throughput, Shipping and Inventory packages. The Planning and Execution package of MATM includes several table additions, such as Driver Calendar for Shipment Assigned Driver, Shipment Trip Segment and TO Baseline Cost. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release