# Platform Release 23.3

**Permalink:** platform-release-notes-23.3-2
**Content Length:** 16,050 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:47:49.145063

---

Home&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Release Notes&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;2023 ››Platform Release 23.3 Manhattan Active&reg; Platform Release Notes 23.3 &nbsp; Release Date: 7/7/2023 &nbsp; ProActiveExtensions DashboardExtension Logs&nbsp;PerformanceFile ExtensionsLocalization&nbsp;Response Templates&nbsp;Extension Pack OwnerData DictionaryDeveloper HubExternal AlertsSupply Chain Intelligence &nbsp; ProActive &nbsp; Extensions Dashboard The Extensions Dashboard,&nbsp;a newly introduced feature in ProActive, offers a consolidated perspective of all configured extensions.&nbsp; The dashboard allows filtering extensions based on their deployment status, view&nbsp;statistics about each extension, and provides in-depth information for any selected extension.&nbsp; The dashboard provides visibility regarding the extensions developed by developers, and their successful deployment and&nbsp;where they are enabled.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Additionally, the Extensions Dashboard&nbsp; empowers users to address issues with extensions. If an extension is not performing as anticipated, then the dashboard allows users to access its status, performance statistics and access extension logs. This information helps in identifying the root cause of the problem and provides a solution. &nbsp; Extension Logs&nbsp; The Extensions Dashboard presents the log information associated with the extension. Users have the ability to toggle the displayed extension logs and also download them for this interface.&nbsp; &nbsp; Performance Users can view the performance of implemented extension handlers within the extension. Two visual and concise metrics are displayed. The first metric is the call summary, which displays the volume of calls made to the extension hander within&nbsp;the last 24 hours. The chart depicts the total number of successful and failed calls&nbsp;&nbsp;made to the extension handler during that timeframe.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; The second metric is the average time summary, which displays&nbsp;the call during a particular timeframe.&nbsp;This chart displays separate lines representing the average time for successful calls and the average time for failed calls. &nbsp; File Extensions The Extension Pack Builder&nbsp;has introduced a new capability to facilitate the upload of File Extensions that can be deployed using an Extension Pack. The supported file extensions include: &nbsp; Localization&nbsp; Localization functionality enables users to incorporate customized text within their custom extension. &nbsp;By specifying the label key and value for each supported language, users can provide translations specific to different languages.&nbsp;&nbsp;These translations are then included in the extension pack and are deployed with the application.&nbsp; &nbsp; Response Templates&nbsp; Upload a template to indicate the fields required to meet the business needs of the specified component and entity.&nbsp;&nbsp;Once deployed, you can specify the use of the template when interacting with the corresponding API. &nbsp; Extension Pack Owner Extensions created by systemadmin@system.com&nbsp;will now be created as a Customer Owned Extension. Extension packs previously created by a system admin have been updated to be a Customer Owned Extension.&nbsp;Extensions that were previously created by systemadmin@system.com have been migrated to customer owned extensions. &nbsp; Data Dictionary When downloading a data dictionary file, the base index information for attributes will be included. &nbsp; Developer Hub &nbsp; Users can now access the Developer Hub from the Help Menu of the Manhattan Active applications. When the user selects the help icon on the navigation bar, a menu will now appear. From this menu the user can go to the product documentation or to the new Developer Hub. &nbsp; &nbsp; External Alerts &nbsp; The Alert Notification service has a new feature to support sending email/web notifications on a periodical basis to subscribers whenever certain functional metrics exceed the configured threshold limit. Customers can configure emails from alert subscriptions to send these alerts whenever these thresholds exceed the limit. &nbsp; Users can configure these metrics and corresponding thresholds in the following UI screens. &nbsp; Functional Metrics: Displays the functional metrics available. Functional Metric Triggers: Configure the triggers that will generate an alert. Subscribe to an Alert: Add email/web notification to Alert subscription. &nbsp; Sample Email &nbsp; &nbsp; Supply Chain Intelligence Introduction of Manhattan Active SCI Status &nbsp; The Manhattan Active SCI Status tracks and monitors the usage of SCI across Manhattan Active&reg; products. It intends to continuously monitor and inform users to take proactive actions for&nbsp;interactive and scheduled reports, performance and configuration-related issues, and long-running reports that signal a potential risk of crashing and avoid downtime. It also includes drill-down reports for some of the metrics to provide more information. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; To access Manhattan Active SCI Status, go to Team Content &gt; SCI Audit Reports &gt; System Activity: