# Manhattan Active® Platform Release Notes 24.3

**Permalink:** platform-release-notes-24.3-2
**Content Length:** 18,321 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:47:40.408078

---

Home&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Release Notes&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;2024 ››Manhattan Active® Platform Release Notes 24.3 Manhattan Active&reg; Platform Release Notes 24.3 Release date: July&nbsp;5, 2024 &nbsp; ProActiveManhattan Assist: Extension Handler SummarizationAutomatic Extension Coverage Analysis - ImportExtensions DashboardExtension Pack Dashboard AvailabilityExtension Pack EnhancementsPre-validation during deploymentExtension Pack MaintainerExtension Pack ExportExtension Pack Builder EnhancementsManage Sample DataProActive Landing PageCloud Platform Framework EnhancementsLinking to the Manhattan Application from any external or internal applicationMatch All on Filter &nbsp; ProActive &nbsp; The following features are available for the Manhattan ProActive 24.3&nbsp;release. &nbsp; Manhattan Assist: Extension Handler Summarization Extension pack handlers can now be summarized within the configurator. By selecting the Generate Handler Summary action, the user can view the details of the handler and its routes summarized. In addition, selection of a route in the configurator pane will highlight the related text in the handler summary pane of the screen. &nbsp; &nbsp; Enablement:&nbsp;This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release.&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Automatic Extension Coverage Analysis - Import The system will now analyze extension packs with extension handlers during the import process to ensure that the extension handlers meet the metrics required for import in a production environment. A prompt will now appear that displays the Extension Handler Coverage, Route Coverage, Latency and Average Request Counts calculated for the extension pack. From here, the user can cancel or proceed with the import. &nbsp; &nbsp; Enablement:&nbsp;This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Related: Extension Pack Coverage Analysis&nbsp; &nbsp; Extensions Dashboard The Extensions Dashboard Metrics tab now supports drill down to view the Extension packs associated with the metric. Upon clicking on the metric on the dashboard, the user will see the extension pack list page filtered by the extension type of the metric that was chosen. &nbsp; &nbsp; Enablement:&nbsp;This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. &nbsp; Related: Extensions Dashboard &nbsp; Extension Pack Dashboard Availability The Extension Pack Dashboard can now be accessed within the application from the following locations: The extension pack list page related links action now includes a link to the Extension Pack Dashboard. When viewing existing extension packs, users can access the Extensions Dashboard via an action on the footer of the screen. &nbsp; Enablement:&nbsp;This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release.&nbsp; &nbsp; Related: Extensions Dashboard &nbsp; Extension Pack Enhancements Pre-validation during deployment During deployment, the extension pack will now go through pre-validation to ensure the extension pack meets the requirements for deployment. If the requirements are not met, the user can evaluate the extension pack and then resubmit for deployment. &nbsp; Enablement:&nbsp;This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release.&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Extension Pack Rollback The following types of File Extensions are now supported during Extension Pack Rollback: Labels & Reports Mobile Workflows Response Templates &nbsp; Enablement:&nbsp;This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release.&nbsp; &nbsp; Related: Extension Pack Rollback &nbsp; Extension Pack Maintainer The term Manhattan Services Extension used on the Extension Pack List Page, Manage Extension Pack Deployment and Extension Pack Dashboard screens has been updated to now be called Extension Pack Maintainer. Users can choose to filter by Customer or Manhattan Services to narrow down the results displayed based on the Extension Pack Maintainer field. &nbsp; Enablement:&nbsp;This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release.&nbsp; &nbsp; Extension Pack Export The extension pack export action has been deprecated and will be removed in a future release. It is recommended to download a zip file of the extension pack via the download action. This file can then be imported into additional environments. &nbsp; Enablement:&nbsp;This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release.&nbsp; &nbsp; Extension Pack Builder Enhancements Manage Sample Data The manage sample data button is now available for extension packs that have been deployed. Use this option to access the configurator for your live deployed extension pack. &nbsp; Enablement:&nbsp;This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release.&nbsp; &nbsp; ProActive Landing Page The landing page actions under the Developer Documentation, Developer Artifacts and Extension Packs section can be turned on and off via grants. A migration script will run with the 24.3 release to ensure that the actions are enabled after upgrade. To change the configuration of the actions, see the Developer Hub for more information about the grants. &nbsp; Enablement:&nbsp;This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release.&nbsp; &nbsp; Related: Developer Hub Prerequisites &nbsp; Cloud Platform Framework Enhancements &nbsp; Linking to the Manhattan Application from any external or internal application External and Internal applications now have the ability to provide a link to open the Manhattan Application filtered to the specific data requested. For example, a user in the Supply Chain Intelligence (SCI) product can link back to the Manhattan Active Supply Chain product to view specific information related to the data they are viewing in SCI.&nbsp; &nbsp; Additionally, internal and external applications can be accessed from Manhattan Active applications. The proper context will be sent when calling the internal or external application URL. &nbsp; Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release.&nbsp; &nbsp; Match All on Filter Text fields on list pages and lookup screens now support matching all special characters when filtering. The user can turn on the Match All feature by selecting the action available on the text field. When turned on, the filter will no longer treat * as a wildcard character and instead the filter will look for an exact match in the search results. &nbsp; Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release.&nbsp; &nbsp;