# Platform Updates 23.4

**Permalink:** platform-updates-23.4
**Content Length:** 12,012 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:47:19.788684

---

Home&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Release Notes&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;2023 ››Platform Updates 23.4 Manhattan Active&reg; Platform Release Notes 23.4 Release Date: 10/6/2023 &nbsp; ProActiveLive Deployment of In-Progress Extensions&nbsp;Cancel DeploymentAutomatic Routing of External APIsExtensions DashboardView UI ExtensionsFramework EnhancementsOrganizationPre-Production Data CleanupSupply Chain IntelligenceDashboard UpdatesReport UpdatesOther&nbsp;Updates ProActive The following features are available for&nbsp;Manhattan ProActive. Live Deployment of In-Progress Extensions&nbsp; The&nbsp;Real-time deployments are not available in production environments.&nbsp; ProActive users can deploy business logic extensions immediately to target components in non-production environments. This is a new feature called Live Deploy, which is designed to speed up the development and testing of extensions with business logic changes. Live Deploy is currently&nbsp;available in non-production environments. For production environments, you will need to follow the current deployment process which is asynchronous and scheduled. To use Live Deploy, navigate to the Extension Pack List page, select the extension that you want to deploy, and click on the Live Deploy button. You will be prompted to select the profiles you want to deploy and confirm the deployment action. Similar to deployment, the user can select one&nbsp;or more profiles for live deployment. After deployment, a success&nbsp;message will appear. Users can use the Live Deploy Details action to see further information about the deployment. &nbsp; Note: This feature only applies to the following elements of an extension pack: Registered APIs, Composite API&rsquo;s, User Exits and Events. All other changes introduced by the extension are applied only through the current deployment process. Cancel Deployment You can now cancel an &ldquo;in-progress deployment&rdquo; of an extension pack if the deployment was initiated but not processed - it takes about 15 minutes after the scheduled deployment time has reached for the deployment process to begin. To cancel a deployment, simply navigate to the Extension Pack List page, select the deployment that you want to cancel, and click the Cancel Deployment button. If the above conditions are met, the deployment is canceled. Note: This feature is available only for regular deployments. The newly introduced Live Deploy feature does not support cancellation as the changes are immediately applied. Automatic Routing of External APIs These APIs can be called through Manhattan XBound component. You can now automatically configure external requests and their authentication requirements when configuring external APIs used in your extensions. This makes it easier to register such external APIs and their authentication requirements in XBound (Manhattan&rsquo;s external communication component). For example, you can use this feature to automatically configure external APIs for payment and parcel integration. Once configured, ProActive will route the call from the extension to the external API registered in XBound. This feature provides a more seamless experience for users, as they do not need to manually configure the external API calls. Extensions Dashboard The Extensions Dashboard has been enhanced to include the localization file extension as an Extension type. This extension type is available on the Extensions Manager Filters and Tiles. The Extension Pack Details page has been enhanced to display an Area Chart for the Handler Performance charts in addition to grouping the performance and log information to each handler for better usability. View UI Extensions The ability to View UI extensions has been added under Developer Artifacts. This allows users to view the UI changes in a read only mode without having to open each individual extension pack. Framework Enhancements Organization Default Profile Id Provisioning profiles can now have a default profile ID. This feature addresses two key issues: Performance:&nbsp;Provisioning profiles can become large and complex, which can impact performance. The Default Profile Id feature reduces the size and complexity of provisioning profiles by removing all profile purpose-profile mappings in the provisioning profile details where the profile in the mapping is the same as the Default Profile. This results in a more lightweight provisioning profile object that consumes less memory. Reliability:&nbsp;When a new profile purpose is added and organization provisioning profiles are not yet synced, profile lookups can fail and throw an exception. The Default Profile Id feature addresses this issue by using the default profile instead of throwing an error. Pre-Production Data Cleanup Configuration Data Pre-production data clean up for an organization can be optionally performed for configuration data. Selected configuration entities are grouped and clean up is performed at the level of these groups. Cleanup is done only if the organization is the profile owner for the data in the configuration entities. Supply Chain Intelligence Manhattan Active&reg; Supply Chain Intelligence version 23.4 brings a mix of new capabilities and enhancements to existing reports, dashboards, and packages.&nbsp; Some of the most noteworthy features are summarized below. Dashboard Updates All SCI dashboards for Omni include the date range details below their titles. You can now view the date range based on the data availability for the dashboard. The date range details dynamically change as per your selection using dashboard filters.&nbsp; Report Updates Multiple changes are made to the existing reports, such as Tender Count, Transaction Summary and Till Summary reports. The fields of the Tender Count report of the Point of Sale header is rearranged to reflect the sequence of store close steps and group them appropriately. The reporting date range for Transaction Summary Report and Till Summary Report are fixed, so that the report displays the date as per the user selection on the prompt page. Other&nbsp;Updates The Manhattan Active SCI Status Report underwent backend enhancements to maximize performance and improve efficiency, especially when handling extensive datasets. For detailed information on the SCI updates, refer to this link.