# Platform Release 23.4

**Permalink:** platform-release-notes-23.4-2
**Content Length:** 15,426 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:47:44.268173

---

Home&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Release Notes&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;2023 ››Platform Release 23.4 Manhattan Active&reg; Platform Release Notes 23.4 &nbsp; Release Date: 10/6/2023 &nbsp; ProActiveLive Deployment of&nbsp;In-Progress Extensions&nbsp;Cancel DeploymentAutomatic Routing of External API&nbsp;Extensions DashboardFramework EnhancementsOrganizationPre-Production Data CleanupSupply Chain IntelligenceDashboard UpdatesReport UpdatesPackage&nbsp;UpdatesOther&nbsp;Updates &nbsp; ProActive &nbsp; The following features are available for&nbsp;Manhattan ProActive. &nbsp; Live Deployment of&nbsp;In-Progress Extensions&nbsp; The&nbsp;Real-time deployments are not available in production environments.&nbsp; &nbsp; ProActive users can deploy business logic extensions immediately to target components in non-production environments. This is a new feature called Live Deploy, which is designed to speed up the development and testing of extensions with business logic changes. &nbsp; Live Deploy is currently&nbsp;available in non-production environments. For production environments, you will need to follow the current deployment process which is asynchronous and scheduled. &nbsp; To use Live Deploy, navigate to the Extension Pack List page, select the extension that you want to deploy, and click on the Live Deploy button. You will be prompted to select the profiles you want to deploy and confirm the deployment action. Similar to deployment, the user can select one&nbsp;or more profiles for live deployment. &nbsp; After deployment, a success&nbsp;message will appear. Users can use the Live Deploy Details action to see further information about the deployment. Note: This feature applies to the following elements of an extension pack: Registered APIs, Composite API&rsquo;s, User Exits and Events. All other changes introduced by the extension are applied through the current deployment process. &nbsp; Cancel Deployment You can cancel an &ldquo;in-progress deployment&rdquo; of an extension pack if the deployment was initiated but not processed - it takes about 15 minutes after the scheduled deployment time has reached for the deployment process to begin. To cancel a deployment, navigate to the Extension Pack List page, select the deployment that you want to cancel, and click the Cancel Deployment button. If the above conditions are met, the deployment is canceled. &nbsp; Note: This feature is available for regular deployments. The newly introduced Live Deploy feature does not support cancellation as the changes are immediately applied. &nbsp; Automatic Routing of External API&nbsp; These APIs can be called through Manhattan XBound component. You can automatically configure external requests and their authentication requirements when configuring external APIs used in your extensions. This makes it easier to register such external APIs and their authentication requirements in XBound (Manhattan&rsquo;s external communication component). &nbsp; For example, you can use this feature to automatically configure external APIs for payment and parcel integration. &nbsp; Once configured, ProActive will route the call from the extension to the external API registered in XBound. This feature provides a more seamless experience for users, as they do not need to manually configure the external API calls. &nbsp; Extensions Dashboard The Extensions Dashboard has been enhanced to include the localization file extension as an Extension type. This extension type is available on the Extensions Manager Filters and Tiles. The Extension Pack Details page has been enhanced to display an Area Chart for the Handler Performance charts in addition to grouping the performance and log information to each handler for better usability. &nbsp; Framework Enhancements &nbsp; Organization Default Profile Id &nbsp; Provisioning profiles can have a default profile ID. This feature addresses two key issues: Performance: Provisioning profiles can become large and complex, which can impact performance. The Default Profile Id feature reduces the size and complexity of provisioning profiles by removing all profile purpose-profile mappings in the provisioning profile details where the profile in the mapping is the same as the Default Profile. This results in a more lightweight provisioning profile object that consumes less memory. Reliability: When a new profile purpose is added and organization provisioning profiles are not yet synced, profile lookups can fail and throw an exception. The Default Profile Id feature addresses this issue by using the default profile instead of throwing an error. &nbsp; Pre-Production Data Cleanup &nbsp; Configuration Data &nbsp; Pre-production data clean up for an organization can be optionally performed for configuration data. Selected configuration entities are grouped and clean up is performed at the level of these groups. Cleanup is done if the organization is the profile owner for the data in the configuration entities. &nbsp; Supply Chain Intelligence &nbsp; Manhattan Active&reg; Supply Chain Intelligence version 23.4 brings a mix of new capabilities and enhancements to existing reports, dashboards, and packages.&nbsp; &nbsp; The following are the most noteworthy features: &nbsp; Dashboard Updates All SCI dashboards under the Warehouse Management, Labor Management, and Transportation Management&nbsp;header include the date range details below their titles. &nbsp;You can now view the date range based on the data availability for the dashboard. The date range details dynamically change as per your selection using dashboard filters. &nbsp; &nbsp; Report Updates Introduction of Appointment Tracking report: This report is helpful in tracking the appointments at a facility and provides insights such as, total appointments, appointments checked in, appointments not checked in, and completed appointments for the selected date range. Using this report you can analyze these details and take measures to improve the appointment schedules in the facility. Changes to Slotting Metrics and Slotting Metrics Details report: This report of Operation SCI underwent several modifications, such as inclusion of picking tasks data, changes to calculations, modifications to the graphical representations, and more. Updates to Carrier Scorecard Report: Included units of measure (UOMs) for multiple currency and distance values in the Carrier Scorecard report. These UOMs are added to the overall performance metrics, Top 5 Claim Categories Costs, Top 5 Lanes, Mode Distribution, and Top 10 Accessorial Cost sections of the report. Inclusion of multiple time zones to MATM reports: Added facility, UTC and user time zone options to the prompt pages of&nbsp;Load Plan,&nbsp;Shipment Missing Invoices, and&nbsp;Shipment with Different Assigned vs Designated Carrier&nbsp;reports which enable you to view the data as per the selection.&nbsp; Updates to other reports: Modified other reports, such as Weeks of Inventory in Pick Slot and Tender Status by Service Provider to their calculations and backend logic.&#39; &nbsp; Package&nbsp;Updates Multiple query subjects are added to the existing MAWM and MATM packages to support enhanced reporting. These entities include Item Code and its aliases added across MAWM packages and Assigned/Designated Equip Type, Carrier Cargo Insurance, Stop Status, and more entities to the Planning and Execution package of MATM. &nbsp; Other&nbsp;Updates The Manhattan Active SCI Status Report underwent backend enhancements to maximize performance and improve efficiency, especially when handling extensive datasets. &nbsp;