# Point of Sale Dashboard

**Permalink:** point-of-sale-dashboard
**Content Length:** 15,091 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:36:47.914634

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Supply Chain Intelligence&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Supply Chain Intelligence - Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Dashboards ››Point of Sale Dashboard Point of Sale&nbsp;Dashboard Point of Sale&nbsp;Overview TabFiltering Data Metric ResultsVisualizationsPerformance and Sales Tab The Point of Sale&nbsp;dashboard provides insights into the&nbsp;data generated from your point of sale systems. This dashboard is tailored for store managers looking for store metrics like Flash Sales, Unit&nbsp;Per Transaction, Average Order Value, Top 5 Sellers, Department Sales, Customer Capture, Hourly Productivity, Associate Performance, and Omni and Store Sales comparison. The subsequent sections on this page explain these metrics and visualizations in detail. You can access the Point of Sale&nbsp;Dashboard&nbsp;in IBM Cognos by navigating to&nbsp;Team Content &gt; SCI Packaged Content &gt; Packaged Dashboards &gt; OMNI &gt; Point of Sales&nbsp;Dashboard. &nbsp; Point of Sale&nbsp;Overview Tab This tab includes dimensions, metrics, and visualizations that display the Point of Sale data of stores you manage. Using this tab, you can analyze the revenue, sales, employee productivity, and more to make informed business decisions and improve sales. The following sections provide more details on this tab. &nbsp; Filtering Data The following table explains the different filters that you can apply on the dashboard, and it returns the data that meets the filter condition: Filter&nbsp; Description Reporting Period You can select any of the following time spans: &nbsp;Business Day, Previous Day, Week To Date, Previous Week, and Month To Date&nbsp; Store This filter shows only those stores which are associated with your login ID. Metric Results The Metric Results section provides the results for the dimensions filtered as the user selects different values in either visualizations and/or the filter section. The metrics are self-explanatory, but some basic details are provided below: &nbsp; Metric Name Description Calculation Flash Sales Amount of flash sales for the selected store(s) [Amount of Merch Items Sold] - [Amount of Merch Items Returned] Units Per Transaction Average number of units sold for every transaction ([Number of Merch Items Sold] + [Number of Merch Items Returned]) / ([Number of Total Transactions]) Average Order Value Average amount of sales in dollar for every order&nbsp; ([Amount of Merch Items Sold] + [Amount of Merch Items Returned]) / ([Number of Total Transactions]) &nbsp; Visualizations This dashboard includes interactive visualizations that return data based on the selection of data points. The following sections summarize the different visualizations in the Store tab: Top 5 Sellers:&nbsp;&nbsp;This tree map visualization shows the top five items with the highest sales in a store. It helps store managers analyze the sales data and determine the best strategy to increase sales for the least popular items they sell in store(s) and reward top performers. This visualization captures the details from the&nbsp;Item&nbsp;dimension and&nbsp;Sales&nbsp;metrics. Department Sales:&nbsp;&nbsp;This Column chart visualization depicts the value of sales by each department. The x-axis represents the departments and the y-axis the sales value. Store managers can use this visualization to compare their revenues across departments and take measures to improve them. This visualization derives the department data from the Order Line Item Dept Name column and sales from the Amount of Merch Items Sold calculation. The colors differentiate departments in this chart. Customer Capture: There can be several store orders that might or might not have registered customers against them. The Customer Capture metric intends to determine if a customer is registered or not.&nbsp;This stacked column visualization compares orders with or without customer IDs. The x-axis represents stores, and the y-axis the number of orders with or without registered customers. This visualization can help store managers analyze the business received from these two sets of customers and determine loyalty programs, purchase/returns, and other policies focusing on customer engagement. This metric can help companies to convert unregistered customers to registered ones. Hourly Productivity:&nbsp;This Line visualization depicts the hourly flash sales metric for each department in store(s). The x-axis represents the hour, and the y-axis value of sales achieved. The departments are differentiated by colors. Store managers can ascertain the success of each department by comparing the hourly data and rewarding the store associates.&nbsp; Performance and Sales Tab This tab provides insights into the data for&nbsp;Associate&nbsp;performance and a comparison of Omni Sales and Store Sales. Associate performance: This table visualization captures the Store Associate ID, Team Associate Name, and Gross Sales.&nbsp;Using this table, store managers can identify the top and bottom performers. This table also contains a drill through report titled Team Performance. You can access this report by selecting an associate ID from the table and clicking the drill through icon. .&nbsp;This drill through report includes columns such as Associate Name, Gross Sales, Amount Per Transaction, Unit Per Transaction, and Registered Customer&#39;s Orders. Using this information, you can analyze the individual&#39;s performance with respect to their contribution to the gross sales.&nbsp; It enables them to design strategies to reward and arrange training programs where applicable. Omni Sales and&nbsp;Store Sales:&nbsp;Using this visualization, store managers can compare and analyze the revenue earned from the store and OMNI sales, InStore Sales, Ship To Store, and Pick Up At Store Sales. Omni sales include revenues earned using Ship To Address and email delivery methods. The x-axis in this stacked column chart represents the store, and the y-axis depicts the value of sales using these methods.