# Point of Sale Backoffice Reports

**Permalink:** point-of-sale-backoffice-reports
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Supply Chain Intelligence/Supply Chain Intelligence - Omni/Reports/Point of Sale Backoffice Reports
**Content Length:** 134,474 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:06:38.262681

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Supply Chain Intelligence››Supply Chain Intelligence - Omni››Reports ››Point of Sale Backoffice Reports Point of Sale Backoffice Reports Report Navigation OptionsBackoffice ReportsAbandoned OrdersDepartment SalesOn Demand Bank DepositOrder Metrics By Store Over / ShortSales SummaryStore SummaryTeam PerformanceTender CountTill SummaryTransaction SummaryFiscal ReportCalendar Configuration for Fiscal Reporting Operational SCI for Point of Sale includes a set of reports for the back office. Back Office provides the ability to access different types of reports for Store Managers, Zone Managers to track or monitor sales and cash flow for a business day.  The reporting functionality enables you to access the business either on a mobile application or on Back Office web URL, and helps to measure key business metrics for the sale and register. Reports can be created for the current day as well as for a range of dates and saved for future reference. Back Office also supports generating reports for the financial period, like a Year, Quarter, Month. These reports are embedded in the Point of Sale application and can be called by the end user from the application itself. Some of the key features of Back Office Reports are below: Real Time/on demand - Reports can be generated anytime during the day.  If the store is closed, report is generated for the immediate previous day.  These reports can be either a daily report or for a specific period. In Store Data - The report is generated for a store. Daily report - Back Office provides the ability to generate reports for a given business day. Periodic report - Back Office provides the ability to generate reports for varied time.  Some of the report periods are pre-defined in the system.  For example: Previous year, Previous quarter, Year to date etc.  In addition, users can select the date range as required. Reports Management Functions - Report includes transactions that are related to Orders, as well as managerial functions like Till Loan, Till Pick up, Pay In, Pay Out. Reports foreign currency tenders - Ability to report a store's base currency and foreign currency transactions. Currency Format - The following reports now adopt the currency format according to the "Content language" specified in the "My Preference" section of IBM Cognos Connection: Department Sales, On Demand Bank Deposit, Over / Short, Sales Summary, Store Summary, Tender Count, and Till Summary Report Navigation Options The Point of Sale application will call SCI with a Store context or parameter by using the following two entry flows: Flow 1: POS app calls the report “# Point of Sale SCI Entry Page” in SCI. When Flow1 is being executed, the link ‘Backoffice Reports’ will call the SCI report ‘# Point of Sale Reports Launch’  and the link ‘Flash Sales’ will call the dashboard ‘Point of Sale Dashboard’. Flow 2: POS app calls the report ‘# Point of Sale Reports Launch’  in SCI. Once the users navigate to the report ‘# Point of Sale Reports Launch’, they will get a list of all backoffice reports which can be executed with the Store parameter. All the reports are defaulted to execute with parameters Store and Store’s business day. A few key things which are common across all these reports. The report ‘# Point of Sale Reports Launch’ has a contextual ‘Back’ button. When Flow1 is getting executed, the option is visible whereas it's not available when Flow 2 is getting executed. A user can execute the report links displayed in the ‘# Point of Sale Reports Launch’ report and after execution, the user will get additional options on the report output page to perform the following actions: Print / Save: This option extracts the report output in the PDF format, but the PDF report output will not include the above three options visible in the HTML output Change Reporting Period: This option helps navigate to the prompt page of the report, where the user gets the below options to change the reporting period or date range and re-execute the report: Cancel: This option helps navigate to the screen which shows the report list i.e. report ‘# Point of Sale Reports Launch. Note: It is recommended to use the system browser to access the SCI reports instead of the In-App browser to avoid any memory issues that may arise due to the size of the report. When the business flag "Open Reports In Default System Browser" in POS Report is set to "True", the application opens the SCI reports in the system browser instead of the In-App browser. The user is required to re-login to the SCI portal to access the reports. Backoffice Reports Filters All the backoffice reports have the same prompts and a prompt page looks like the one below. The users will see this page when they click on the above mentioned “Change Reporting Period” option or when they launch the reports directly from SCI URL. Store As explained in the “Report Navigation options” section, a user is expected to navigate to these reports from the POS App and when such a flow is getting executed, the Store ID parameter will automatically get transferred from the POS app screen to SCI report screens. But users can still access these reports directly from the SCI environment URL (outside of the POS App). In case users choose the same, they will be prompted by an additional prompt to provide the Store context for the reports. Reporting Period The reporting period prompt is mapped to the fiscal calendar. Users will have the below options to choose from: Business Day This selection will map the transaction records to the store’s Business Day. Previous Day This selection will map the transaction records to the Store’s Previous Business Day Week To Date, Previous Week, Month To Date, Previous Month, Quarter to Date, Previous Quarter, Year To Date, Previous Year The above options will map to the Organization’s fiscal calendar. Based on the fiscal calendar definition, the transaction records will get filtered Date Range The data range prompt will retrieve those transactions which are mapped to the selected dates. Abandoned Orders Abandoned orders are orders that customers add to the shopping cart but do not convert into a purchase for reasons such as an app crash or forceful closure of the app. An increase in these orders might indicate a loss of customers, sales, and revenues. Operational SCI for Point of Sale includes the Abandoned Orders report, which helps retailers evaluate these orders and assign them to other customers who aim to buy. It also helps them analyze the reasons and take measures to minimize their occurrences. This report includes adjustments to differentiate between POS cancelations due to price check scenarios and actual order cancelations. It considers the IS_PRICE_CHECK_ORDER column to achieve this differentiation. The Price Check feature of Point of Sale enables associates to conveniently check item prices without initiating and subsequently canceling actual customer orders. This functionality shows a simplified screen where associates can manually enter or scan bar codes, indicating item prices, including any applicable promotional deals. This report contains two tabs: Abandoned Orders and Rerung Orders. Rerung Orders are the ones that get paid more than once due to a system glitch. You can access the report in IBM Cognos by navigating to Team Content > SCI Packaged Content > Reports > OMNI > Point of Sale > Abandoned Orders Report. Report Prompt Reporting Period Date Range Order Selling Location Query Subjects Point of Sale Order Order Capture Info Payment Method Payment Transaction1 Report Columns For Abandoned Orders Report Report Column Description / Query Subject Item Calculations Order Created Timestamp [Point of Sales].[Order] / [Order Created Timestamp] Order Business Date [Point of Sales].[Order] and Order Additional / [Payment Transaction1].[Order Business Date] Order Additional Is Price Check Order Payment Transaction1 : 1. Order Selling Channel] = 'Store’; 2. Order is Cancelled] = 'Yes’; and Order Additional Is Price Check Order !='Yes' 3. [Order Cancel Reason ID] IN ('StoreClose’, 'ConfirmationDue'); 4. [Cancelled Order Total] >= 0; 5. Optional: Store ID 6. Selected Date vs FiscalDate Query 1. Fiscal Date: [Reporting Period] = ?p_FiscalType? Order ID [Point of Sales].[Order] and Order Additional / [Payment Transaction1].[Order ID], Order Additional Is Price Check Order Payment Transaction1 : 1. Order Selling Channel] = 'Store’; 2. Order is Cancelled] = 'Yes’;  and Order Additional Is Price Check Order !='Yes' 3. [Order Cancel Reason ID] IN ('StoreClose’, 'ConfirmationDue'); 4. [Cancelled Order Total] >= 0; 5. Optional: Store ID 6. Selected Date vs FiscalDate Query 1. Fiscal Date: [Reporting Period] = ?p_FiscalType? Location ID [Point of Sales].[Order] and Order Additional / [Payment Transaction1].[Location ID], Order Additional Is Price Check Order Payment Transaction1 : 1. Order Selling Channel] = 'Store’; 2. Order is Cancelled] = 'Yes’; 3. [Order Cancel Reason ID] IN ('StoreClose’, 'ConfirmationDue'); 4. [Cancelled Order Total] >= 0; 5. Optional: Store ID 6. Selected Date vs FiscalDate Query 1. Fiscal Date: [Reporting Period] = ?p_FiscalType? Order Capture Register ID [Point of Sales].[Order Capture Info] and Order Additional / [Payment Transaction1].[Order Capture Register ID], Order Additional Is Price Check Order Payment Transaction1 : 1. Order Selling Channel] = 'Store’; 2. Order is Cancelled] = 'Yes’; and Order Additional Is Price Check Order !='Yes' 3. [Order Cancel Reason ID] IN ('StoreClose’, 'ConfirmationDue'); 4. [Cancelled Order Total] >= 0; 5. Optional: Store ID 6. Selected Date vs FiscalDate Query 1. Fiscal Date: [Reporting Period] = ?p_FiscalType? Order Created By [Point of Sales].[Order] / [Payment Transaction1].[Order Created By], Order Additional Is Price Check Order Payment Transaction1 : 1. Order Selling Channel] = 'Store’; 2. Order is Cancelled] = 'Yes’; and Order Additional Is Price Check Order !='Yes' 3. [Order Cancel Reason ID] IN ('StoreClose’, 'ConfirmationDue'); 4. [Cancelled Order Total] >= 0; 5. Optional: Store ID 6. Selected Date vs FiscalDate Query 1. Fiscal Date: [Reporting Period] = ?p_FiscalType? Pay Method Payment Type [Point of Sales].[Payment Method] / [Pay Method Payment Type] Pay Method Amount [Point of Sales].[Payment Method] / [Pay Method Amount] Order Cancel Reason ID [Payment Transaction1].[Order Cancel Reason ID] Cancelled Order Total CASE WHEN running-count('X' for [Order ID]) = 1 THEN [Payment Transaction1].[Cancelled Order Total] ELSE 0 END Checkout Initiated [Point of Sales].[Order] / [Order is Ready for Tender] Reverse Refund [Payment Transaction1].[Reverse Refund] "CASE WHEN (([Point of Sales].[Payment Transaction].[Pay Transaction Type] = 'Void' AND [Point of Sales].[Payment Transaction].[Pay Trans Response Status] <> 'Success') OR ([Point of Sales].[Payment Transaction].[Pay Transaction Type] = 'Refund' AND [Point of Sales].[Payment Transaction].[Pay Trans Response Status] = 'Success')) THEN 'Yes' Else 'No' END" Missing Transaction Detail [Payment Transaction1].[Missing Transaction Detail] CASE WHEN [Point of Sales].[Payment Transaction].[Pay Transaction Type] = 'Void' AND [Point of Sales].[Payment Transaction].[Pay Trans Response Status] <> 'Success' THEN 'Yes' Else 'No' END Report Columns For Rerung Orders Report Column Query Subject 1 / Query Subject Item 1 Match Type [Rerung Card and Order Total] / [Card and Total Match] Abandoned Order ID [Rerung Orders 2 Payment and Card] / [Abandoned Order ID] Abandoned Order Created Timestamp [Rerung Orders 2 Payment and Card].[Rerung Order Created Timestamp] / Abandoned Order Created Timestamp Cancelled Order Total [Rerung Orders 2 Payment and Card] / [Cancelled Order Total] Rerung Order ID [Rerung Orders 2 Payment and Card] / [Rerung Order ID] Rerung Order Created Timestamp [Rerung Orders 2 Payment and Card] / [Rerung Order Created Timestamp] Rerung Order Total [Rerung Orders 2 Payment and Card] / [Rerung Order Total] Report Prompt Report Output - Abandoned Orders Tab Report Output - Rerung Orders Tab Department Sales This report shows the Units Sold, Sales and Discount provided across various departments in the store. Query Subject Order Order Line Order Line Charge Fiscal Calendar Report Columns Report Column Descriptions/Query Subject Item Filters Dept # Order Line Item Dept Number Dept Name Order Line Item Dept Name Units Sold SUM (Order Line Qty) Order is Confirmed = 'Yes' Order is Post Voided='No' Order Line is Cancelled ='No' Order Line is Return='No' Order Line is Non-Merchandise='No' Dept Sales SUM (Order Line Sub Total + Order Line Total Discount On Item) Order is Confirmed = 'Yes' Order is Post Voided='No' Order Line is Cancelled ='No' Order Line is Return='No' Order Line is Non-Merchandise='No' Total Sales SUM (Order Line Sub Total + Order Line Total Discount On Item) This is total sales for all departments. Order is Confirmed = 'Yes' Order is Post Voided='No' Order Line is Cancelled ='No' Order Line is Return='No' Order Line is Non-Merchandise='No' % of Total Sales Dept Sales / Total Sales Discounts SUM (Order Line Charge Total) Order is Confirmed = 'Yes' Order is Post Voided='No' Order Line is Cancelled ='No' Order Line Charge Total < 0 Order Line Charge is Informational = 'No' Order Line Charge.Related Charge Detail ID = Null Order Line Charge.Order Line Related Charge Type = Null Report PDF Output On Demand Bank Deposit This report shows the bank deposit transactions in a store. Query Subject Backoffice Transaction Backoffice Transaction Details Fiscal Calendar Report Columns Report Column Descriptions/Query Subject Item Filters Backoffice Tran Business Date Backoffice Tran Business Date Time Backoffice Tran Created Timestamp User Backoffice Tran Created By Deposit ID Backoffice Tran Deposit Number Currency Code Backoffice Tran Detail Currency Code Deposit Amount SUM (Backoffice Tran Detail Amount) Backoffice Tran Operation Type ='BANK_DEPOSIT' Report PDF Output Order Metrics By Store Operational SCI for Point of Sale includes the Order Metrics By Store report. Store Managers can use this report to track/troubleshoot all the orders captured in the register or device within the store based on their status and determine action strategies to manage these orders. This report derives data from the Order and POSService components of the POS application. The Order Metrics By Store report provides the number of completed orders, abandoned orders with payment attempts, abandoned orders without payment attempts, and orders with reprint receipts by the store for a given date range. This report includes adjustments to differentiate between POS cancelations due to price check scenarios and actual order cancelations. It considers the IS_PRICE_CHECK_ORDER column to achieve this differentiation. The Price Check feature of Point of Sale enables associates to conveniently check item prices without initiating and subsequently canceling actual customer orders. This functionality shows a simplified screen where associates can manually enter or scan bar codes, indicating item prices, including any applicable promotional deals. You can access the report in IBM Cognos by navigating to Team Content > SCI Packaged Content > Reports > OMNI > Point of Sale > Order Metrics By Store Report. Report Filters Store Date Range / Reporting Period Register / Device Register ID / Device ID Report Columns Report Column Description / Query Subject Item Calculations Store ORD_ORDER / SELLING_LOCATION_ID For a given store, register, and device combination, the total number of completed orders, abandoned orders, and re-prints Register ID ORD_ORDER_CAPTURE_DETAIL / REGISTER_ID Device ID ORD_ORDER_CAPTURE_DETAIL / DEVICE_ID Completed Orders ORD_ORDER / ORDER_ID Count of confirmed orders Abandoned Orders With Payment Attempt ORD_ORDER, SAM_REQUEST_LOGS, ORD_ORDER_ADDITIONAL / ORDER_ID IS_PRICE_CHECK_ORDER count(distinct order_id) FROM default_order.ORD_ORDER  where IS_CANCELLED=1 AND IS_PRICE_CHECK_ORDER!=1 AND CANCEL_REASON_ID in ('ConfirmationDue','StoreClose') group by  selling_location_id asc, date(business_date) asc Abandoned Order Without Payment Attempt ORD_ORDER, SAM_REQUEST_LOGS, ORD_ORDER_ADDITIONAL / ORDER_ID,  IS_PRICE_CHECK_ORDER count(distinct order_id) FROM default_order.ORD_ORDER  where IS_CANCELLED=1 AND IS_PRICE_CHECK_ORDER!=1 AND CANCEL_REASON_ID in ('ConfirmationDue','StoreClose') group by  selling_location_id asc, date(business_date) asc # of Orders Reprinted RCT_REPRINT_RECEIPT / ORDER_ID Count of confirmed orders with Reprint receipt Report Prompt Report Output Over / Short This report shows the variance between what is in the tills and what has been counted for. Query Subject Backoffice Transaction Backoffice Transaction Details Fiscal Calendar Report Columns Report Column Descriptions/Query Subject Item Filters Date Backoffice Tran Business Date Till ID Backoffice Tran TILL ID Operation Type Backoffice Trans Operation Type If TILL_RECONCILE, display Till Reconcile If TILL_OPEN, display Till Open Tender Type Backoffice Tran Detail Tender Type ID Currency Code Backoffice Tran Detail Currency Code Expected Reconcile Till Amount Backoffice Tran Detail Amount Type Backoffice Tran Detail Amount Backoffice Tran Operation Type SUM (Backoffice Tran Detail Amount) Entered Reconcile Till Amount Backoffice Tran Detail Amount Type Backoffice Tran Detail Amount Backoffice Tran Operation Type SUM (Backoffice Tran Detail Amount) Over / Short Amount Till Reconcile Expected Reconcile Till Amount ( calculated above) Entered Reconcile Till Amount (calculated above) Entered Reconcile Till Amount Expected Reconcile Till Amount Expected Open Till Amount Backoffice Tran Detail Amount Type Backoffice Tran Detail Amount Backoffice Tran Operation Type SUM (Backoffice Tran Detail Amount) Entered Open Till Amount Backoffice Tran Detail Amount Type Backoffice Tran Detail Amount Backoffice Tran Operation Type SUM (Backoffice Tran Detail Amount) Over / Short Amount Till Open Expected Open Till Amount (calculated above) Entered Open Till Amount (calculated above) Entered Open Till Amount - Expected Open Till Amount Expected Count Backoffice Tran Detail Count SUM (Count) Entered Count Backoffice Tran Detail Count SUM (Count) Over / Short Amount case when [Operation Type]='Till Open' then [OverShort Amount Till Open] when  [Operation Type]='Till Reconcile' then [OverShort Amount Till Reconcile] else 0 end Over / Short Count Entered Count - Expected Count Report PDF Output Sales Summary This report shows the sales summary information of the store Query Subject Order Order Line Order Capture Info Fiscal Calendar Report Columns Report Column Query Subject/Query Subject Item Filters Device Order Capture Info/Order Capture Register ID [Point of Sales].[Order Capture Info].[Order Capture Register ID] Total # of Transactions Order PK /Count of Orders (if ([Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Cancelled] = 'No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Non-Merchandise] = 'No') then (abs([Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line Sub Total] + [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line Total Discount On Item])) else (0)) / [Total # of Transactions] Average Amount per Transaction Order Line/Absolute value of (Order Line Sub Total + Order Line Total Discount On Item) (if ([Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Cancelled] = 'No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Non-Merchandise] = 'No') then (abs([Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line Sub Total] + [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line Total Discount On Item])) else (0)) / [Total # of Transactions] Total # of Units Order Line/Order Line Qty if ([Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Cancelled] = 'No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Non-Merchandise] = 'No') then ([Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line Qty]) else (0) Average Units per Transaction Total # Of Units/Total # of Transactions Total Amount Sales Order Line/SUM (Order Line Sub Total + Order Line Total Discount On Item) if ([Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Cancelled] = 'No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Non-Merchandise] = 'No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Return] = 'No') then ([Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line Sub Total] + [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line Total Discount On Item] ) else (0) Total Amount Returns Order Line/SUM (Absolute value of Order Line Sub Total + Order Line Total Discounts) if ([Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Cancelled] = 'No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Non-Merchandise] = 'No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Return] = 'Yes') then (abs([Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line Sub Total] + [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line Total Discounts] )) else (0) Net Sales Total Amount Sales - Total Amount Returns Report PDF Output Store Summary The Store Summary Report provides an extensive overview of key performance indicators, sales statistics, and operational insights for strategic decision-making and performance evaluation of stores. This detailed summary encompasses categories, including merchandise and non-merchandise sales, tax analysis, exceptions, adjustments, discounts, omni-order analysis, and miscellaneous metrics. This report can be a vital tool for stores in providing actionable insights to enhance operational efficiency, drive sales growth, and optimize overall performance. This report includes adjustments to differentiate between POS cancelations due to price check scenarios and actual order cancelations. It considers the IS_PRICE_CHECK_ORDER column to achieve this differentiation. The Price Check feature of Point of Sale enables associates to conveniently check item prices without initiating and subsequently canceling actual customer orders. This functionality shows a simplified screen where associates can manually enter or scan bar codes, indicating item prices, including any applicable promotional deals. You can access the report in IBM Cognos by navigating to Team Content > SCI Packaged Content > Reports > OMNI > Point of Sale > Store Summary Query Subject Order Order Line Order Charge Order Line Charge Payment Transaction Backoffice Transaction Backoffice Transaction Details Fiscal Calendar Report Columns Report Column Query Subject / Query Subject Item / Descriptions Filters Sales Statistics Number of Sales Transactions Order / Order PK Count of Orders if ([Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Confirmed] = 'Yes' and [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Post Voided] ='No' and [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order Merch Sale Line Count] > 0 and [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order Merch Return Line Count] = 0) then (1) else (0) Number of Return Transactions Order / Order PK Count of Orders if ([Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Confirmed] = 'Yes' and [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Post Voided] ='No' and [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order Merch Sale Line Count] = 0 and [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order Merch Return Line Count] > 0) then (1) else (0) Number of Exchange Transactions Order / Order PK Count of Orders if ([Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Confirmed] = 'Yes' and [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Post Voided] ='No' and [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order Merch Sale Line Count] > 0 and [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order Merch Return Line Count] > 0) then (1) else (0) Number of Merch Items Sold Order Line / Order Line Qty SUM (Order Line Qty) if ([Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Confirmed] = 'Yes' and [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Post Voided] ='No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Return] = 'No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Non-Merchandise] ='No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Cancelled]='No') then ([Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line Qty]) else (0) Number of Merch Items Returned Order Line / Order Line Qty SUM (Order Line Qty) if ([Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Confirmed] = 'Yes' and [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Post Voided] ='No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Return] = 'Yes' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Non-Merchandise] ='No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Cancelled]='No') then ([Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line Qty]) else (0) Amount of Merch Items Sold Order Line / Order Line Sub Total, Order Line Total Discount On Item SUM (Order Line Sub Total + Order Line Total Discount On Item) if ([Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Confirmed] = 'Yes' and [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Post Voided] ='No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Return] = 'No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Non-Merchandise] ='No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Cancelled]='No') then ([Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line Sub Total] + [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line Total Discount On Item]) else (0) Amount of Merch Items Returned Order Line / Order Line Sub Total, Order Line Total Discount SUM (Absolute value of (Order Line Sub Total + Order Line Total Discounts) if ([Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Confirmed] = 'Yes' and [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Post Voided] ='No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Return] = 'Yes' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Non-Merchandise] ='No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Cancelled]='No') then (abs ([Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line Sub Total] + [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line Total Discounts])) else (0) UPT (Number of Merch Items Sold + Number of Merch Items Returned)/( Number of Sale Transactions + Number of Return Transactions + Number of Exchange Transactions) ([Orderline Metrics].[Number of Merch Items Sold]+[Orderline Metrics].[Number of Merch Items Returned]) /([Order Metrics].[Number of Sales Transactions]+[Order Metrics].[Number of Return Transactions]+[Order Metrics].[Number of Exchange Transactions]) DPT (Amount of Merch Items Sold + Amount of Merch Items Returned)/( Number of Sale Transactions + Number of Return Transactions + Number of Exchange Transactions) ([Orderline Metrics].[Amount of Merch Items Sold]+[Orderline Metrics].[Amount of Merch Items Returned]) /([Order Metrics].[Number of Sales Transactions]+[Order Metrics].[Number of Return Transactions]+[Order Metrics].[Number of Exchange Transactions]) Merchandise/Non-Merchandise Sales Statistics Merchandise Sales Order Line / Order Line Sub Total, Order Line Total Discount On Item SUM (Order Line Sub Total + Order Line Total Discount On Item) if ([Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Confirmed] = 'Yes' and [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Post Voided] ='No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Return] ='No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Non-Merchandise] = 'No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Cancelled] = 'No') then ([Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line Sub Total] + [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line Total Discount On Item]) else (0) Merchandise Return Order Line / Order Line Sub Total, Order Line Total Discount On Item SUM (Absolute value of (Order Line Sub Total + Order Line Total Discounts) if ([Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Confirmed] = 'Yes' and [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Post Voided] ='No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Return] ='Yes' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Non-Merchandise] = 'No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Cancelled] = 'No') then (abs([Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line Sub Total] + [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line Total Discounts])) else (0) Non Merchandise Sales Order Line / Order Line Sub Total, Order Line Total Discount On Item SUM (Order Line Sub Total + Order Line Total Discount On Item) if ([Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Confirmed] = 'Yes' and [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Post Voided] ='No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Return] ='No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Non-Merchandise] = 'Yes' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Cancelled] = 'No') then ([Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line Sub Total] + [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line Total Discount On Item]) else (0) Non Merchandise Returns Order Line / Order Line Sub Total, Order Line Total Discount On Item SUM (Absolute value of (Order Line Sub Total + Order Line Total Discounts) if ([Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Confirmed] = 'Yes' and [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Post Voided] ='No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Return] ='Yes' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Non-Merchandise] = 'Yes' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Cancelled] = 'No') then (abs ([Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line Sub Total] + [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line Total Discounts])) else (0) Value Added Services Order Line Charge / Order Line Charge Total SUM (Order Line Charge Total) if ([Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Confirmed] = 'Yes' and [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Post Voided] ='No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line Charge].[Order Line Charge Type]='Value Added Services' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Cancelled] = 'No') then ([Point of Sales].[Order Line Charge].[Order Line Charge Total]) else (0) Net Sales Merchandise Sales + Non Merchandise Sales - Merchandise Returns - Non Merchandise Returns + Value Added Services ([Merchandise Sales]+[Non Merchandise Sales])-([Merchandise Return]+[Non Merchandise Returns])+[Value Added Services] Miscellaneous Sales Statistics Number of Gift Cards Issued Payment Transaction / Pay Transaction PK Count of records in Payment Transaction case when [Point of Sales].[Payment Transaction].[Pay Transaction Type] = 'Activate' then 1 else 0 end Amount of Gift Cards Issued Payment Transaction / Pay Trans Processed Amount SUM (Pay Trans Processed Amount) case when [Point of Sales].[Payment Transaction].[Pay Transaction Type] = 'Activate' then [Point of Sales].[Payment Transaction].[Pay Trans Processed Amount] else 0 end Number of Gift Cards Reloaded Payment Transaction / Pay Transaction PK Count of records in Payment Transaction case when [Point of Sales].[Payment Transaction].[Pay Transaction Type] = 'Reload' then 1 else 0 end Amount of Gift Cards Reloaded Payment Transaction / Pay Trans Processed Amount SUM (Pay Trans Processed Amount) case when [Point of Sales].[Payment Transaction].[Pay Transaction Type] = 'Reload' then [Point of Sales].[Payment Transaction].[Pay Trans Processed Amount] else 0 end Tax Analysis Taxable Sales Order Line / Order Line Sub Total, Order Line Total Discount On Item SUM (Order Line Sub Total + Order Line Total Discount On Item) if([Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Confirmed] = 'Yes' and [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Post Voided] ='No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line Total Taxes] <> 0 and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Cancelled] = 'No') then ([Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line Sub Total] + [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line Total Discount On Item]) else (0) Nontaxable Sales Order Line / Order Line Sub Total, Order Line Total Discount On Item SUM (Order Line Sub Total + Order Line Total Discount On Item) if([Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Confirmed] = 'Yes' and [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Post Voided] ='No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line Total Taxes] = 0 and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Cancelled] = 'No') then ([Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line Sub Total] + [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line Total Discount On Item]) else (0) Sales Tax Collected Order Line / Order Line Total Taxes SUM (Order Line Total Taxes) if([Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Confirmed] = 'Yes' and [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Post Voided] ='No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Cancelled] = 'No') then ([Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line Total Taxes]) else (0) Information Tax Collected Order Line Tax / Order Line Tax Amount Exception Information Number of Transaction Voids Order, Order Additional / Order PK, Order Additional Is Price Check Order Count of Orders if ( [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Cancelled] ='Yes' and [Point of Sales].[Order Additional].[Order Additional Is Price Check Order] <> 1 and [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Post Voided] = 'No' and [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order Cancel Reason ID] <> 'Suspended') then (1) else (0) Amount of Transaction Voids Order, Order Additional / Cancelled Order Sub Total, Cancelled Order Total Discounts, Is Price Check Order SUM (Cancelled Order Sub Total +  Cancelled Order Total Discounts) if ( [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Cancelled] ='Yes' and [Point of Sales].[Order Additional].[Order Additional Is Price Check Order] <> 1 and [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Post Voided] = 'No' and [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order Cancel Reason ID] <> 'Suspended') then ([Point of Sales].[Order].[Cancelled Order Sub Total] + [Point of Sales].[Order].[Cancelled Order Total Discounts]) else (0) Number of Post Voids Order / Order PK Count of Orders if ([Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Post Voided] = 'Yes') then (1) else (0) Amount of Post Voids Order / Cancelled Order Sub Total, Cancelled Order Total Discounts SUM (Cancelled Order Sub Total +  Cancelled Order Total Discounts) if ( [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Post Voided] = 'Yes') then ([Point of Sales].[Order].[Cancelled Order Sub Total] + [Point of Sales].[Order].[Cancelled Order Total Discounts]) else (0) Number of Line Item Void Order Line / Order Line PK Count of Order Lines if ( [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Confirmed] ='Yes' and [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Post Voided] = 'No' and [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order Cancel Reason ID] <> 'Suspended' AND [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Cancelled] = 'Yes') then (1) else (0) Amount of Line Item Void Order Line / Cancelled Order Line Sub Total, Cancelled Order Line Total Discounts SUM (Cancelled Order Line Sub Total + Cancelled Order Line Total Discounts) if ( [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Confirmed] ='Yes' and [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Post Voided] = 'No' and [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order Cancel Reason ID] <> 'Suspended' AND [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Cancelled] = 'Yes') then ([Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Cancelled Order Line Sub Total] + [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Cancelled Order Line Total Discounts]) else (0) Number of No Sales Backoffice Transaction / Backoffice Tran PK Count of Backoffice Transactions if ([Point of Sales].[Backoffice Transaction].[Backoffice Tran Operation Type] = 'NO_SALE') then (1) else (0) Adjustments Number of Price Overrides Order Line / Order Line PK Count of Order Lines if([Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Confirmed] = 'Yes' and [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Post Voided] ='No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Price Overriden] ='Yes' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Cancelled] = 'No') then (1) else (0) Amount of Price Overrides Order Line / Order Line Unit Price, Orig Unit Value for Order Line SUM (Order Line Unit Price - Orig Unit Value for Order Line) if([Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Confirmed] = 'Yes' and [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Post Voided] ='No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Price Overriden] ='Yes' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Cancelled] = 'No') then ([Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line Unit Price] - [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Orig Unit Value for Order Line]) else (0) Discount Analysis Number of Manual Item Discounts Order Line Charge / Order Line Charge PK Count of Order Line Charge records if ([Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Confirmed] ='Yes' and [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Post Voided] = 'No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line Charge].[Order Line Charge Total] < 0 and [Point of Sales].[Order Line Charge].[Order Line Charge Detail ID] is null and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Cancelled] ='No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line Charge].[Order Line Charge is Informational]='No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line Charge].[Order Line Related Charge Type] is null and [Point of Sales].[Order Line Charge].[Related Charge Detail ID] is null) then (1) else (0) Amount of Manual Item Discounts Order Line Charge / Order Line Charge Total SUM (Absolute value of Order Line Charge Total) if ([Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Confirmed] ='Yes' and [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Post Voided] = 'No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line Charge].[Order Line Charge Total] < 0 and [Point of Sales].[Order Line Charge].[Order Line Charge Detail ID] is null and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Cancelled] ='No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line Charge].[Order Line Charge is Informational]='No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line Charge].[Order Line Related Charge Type] is null and [Point of Sales].[Order Line Charge].[Related Charge Detail ID] is null) then (abs ([Point of Sales].[Order Line Charge].[Order Line Charge Total])) else (0) Number of Manual Transaction Discounts Order Charge / Order Charge PK Count of Order Charge records if ([Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Confirmed] ='Yes' and [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Post Voided] = 'No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line Charge].[Order Line Charge Total] < 0 and [Point of Sales].[Order Line Charge].[Order Line Charge Detail ID] is null and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Cancelled] ='No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line Charge].[Order Line Charge is Informational]='No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line Charge].[Order Line Related Charge Type] is null and [Point of Sales].[Order Line Charge].[Related Charge Detail ID] is null) then (1) else (0) Amount of Manual Transaction Discounts Order Charge  / Order Charge Total SUM (Order Charge Total) if ([Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Confirmed] ='Yes' and [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Post Voided] = 'No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line Charge].[Order Line Charge Total] < 0 and [Point of Sales].[Order Line Charge].[Order Line Charge Detail ID] is null and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Cancelled] ='No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line Charge].[Order Line Charge is Informational]='No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line Charge].[Order Line Related Charge Type] is null and [Point of Sales].[Order Line Charge].[Related Charge Detail ID] is null) then (abs ([Point of Sales].[Order Line Charge].[Order Line Charge Total])) else (0) Total Discounts Order Line Charge / Order Line Charge Total SUM (Order Line Charge Total) if ([Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Confirmed] ='Yes' and [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Post Voided] = 'No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line Charge].[Order Line Charge Total] < 0 and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Cancelled] ='No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line Charge].[Order Line Charge is Informational]='No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line Charge].[Order Line Related Charge Type] is null and [Point of Sales].[Order Line Charge].[Related Charge Detail ID] is null) then ([Point of Sales].[Order Line Charge].[Order Line Charge Total]) else (0) Omni Order Analysis Number of Pickup at Store Items Order Line / Order Line Qty SUM (Order Line Qty) if ([Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Confirmed] ='Yes' and [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Post Voided] = 'No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line Delivery Method] = 'PickUpAtStore' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Cancelled] = 'No') then ([Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line Qty]) else (0) Amount of Pickup at Store Items Order Line / Order Line Sub Total, Order Line Total Discount On Item SUM (Order Line Sub Total + Order Line Total Discount On Item) if ([Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Confirmed] ='Yes' and [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Post Voided] = 'No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line Delivery Method] = 'PickUpAtStore' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Cancelled] = 'No') then ([Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line Sub Total] + [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line Total Discount On Item]) else (0) Number of Ship to Store Items Order Line / Order Line Qty SUM (Order Line Qty) if ([Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Confirmed] ='Yes' and [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Post Voided] = 'No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line Delivery Method] = 'ShipToStore' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Cancelled] = 'No') then ([Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line Qty]) else (0) Amount of Ship to Store Items Order Line, Order Line Sub Total, Order Line Total Discount On Item SUM (Order Line Sub Total + Order Line Total Discount On Item) if ([Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Confirmed] ='Yes' and [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Post Voided] = 'No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line Delivery Method] = 'ShipToStore' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Cancelled] = 'No') then ([Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line Sub Total] + [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line Total Discount On Item]) else (0) Number of Ship to Address Items Order Line / Order Line Qty SUM (Order Line Qty) if ([Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Confirmed] ='Yes' and [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Post Voided] = 'No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line Delivery Method] = 'ShipToAddress' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Cancelled] = 'No') then ([Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line Qty]) else (0) Amount of Ship to Address Items Order Line / Order Line Sub Total, Order Line Total Discount On Item SUM (Order Line Sub Total + Order Line Total Discount On Item) if ([Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Confirmed] ='Yes' and [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Post Voided] = 'No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line Delivery Method] = 'ShipToAddress' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Cancelled] = 'No') then ([Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line Sub Total] + [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line Total Discount On Item]) else (0) Shipping Charges Order Line Charge / Order Line Charge Total SUM (Order Line Charge Total) if ([Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Confirmed] ='Yes' and [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Post Voided] = 'No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line Charge].[Order Line Charge Type]='Shipping' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line].[Order Line is Cancelled] = 'No') then ([Point of Sales].[Order Line Charge].[Order Line Charge Total]) else (0) Miscellaneous Number of Pay In Backoffice Transaction / Backoffice Tran PK Count of Backoffice Transaction records if ([Point of Sales].[Backoffice Transaction].[Backoffice Tran Operation Type] = 'TILL_PAYIN') then (1) else (0) Amount of Pay In Backoffice Transaction Details / Backoffice Tran Detail Amount SUM (Backoffice Tran Detail Amount) if ([Point of Sales].[Backoffice Transaction].[Backoffice Tran Operation Type] = 'TILL_PAYIN' and  [Point of Sales].[Backoffice Transaction Details].[Backoffice Tran Detail Amount Type]='EnteredAmount') then ([Point of Sales].[Backoffice Transaction Details].[Backoffice Tran Detail Amount]) else (0) Number of Pay Out Backoffice Transaction / Backoffice Tran PK Count of Backoffice Transaction records if ([Point of Sales].[Backoffice Transaction].[Backoffice Tran Operation Type] = 'TILL_PAYOUT') then (1) else (0) Amount of Pay Out Backoffice Transaction Details / Backoffice Tran Detail Amount SUM (Backoffice Tran Detail Amount) if ([Point of Sales].[Backoffice Transaction].[Backoffice Tran Operation Type] = 'TILL_PAYOUT' and  [Point of Sales].[Backoffice Transaction Details].[Backoffice Tran Detail Amount Type]='EnteredAmount') then ([Point of Sales].[Backoffice Transaction Details].[Backoffice Tran Detail Amount]) else (0) Number of Till Loans Backoffice Transaction / Backoffice Tran PK Count of Backoffice Transaction records if ([Point of Sales].[Backoffice Transaction].[Backoffice Tran Operation Type] = 'TILL_LOAN') then (1) else (0) Amount of Till Loans Backoffice Transaction Details / Backoffice Tran Detail Amount SUM (Backoffice Tran Detail Amount) if ([Point of Sales].[Backoffice Transaction].[Backoffice Tran Operation Type] = 'TILL_LOAN' and  [Point of Sales].[Backoffice Transaction Details].[Backoffice Tran Detail Amount Type]='EnteredAmount') then ([Point of Sales].[Backoffice Transaction Details].[Backoffice Tran Detail Amount]) else (0) Number of Till Pickups Backoffice Transaction / Backoffice Tran PK Count of Backoffice Transaction records if ([Point of Sales].[Backoffice Transaction].[Backoffice Tran Operation Type] = 'TILL_PICKUP') then (1) else (0) Amount of Till Pickups Backoffice Transaction Details / Backoffice Tran Detail Amount SUM (Backoffice Tran Detail Amount) if ([Point of Sales].[Backoffice Transaction].[Backoffice Tran Operation Type] = 'TILL_PICKUP' and  [Point of Sales].[Backoffice Transaction Details].[Backoffice Tran Detail Amount Type]='EnteredAmount') then ([Point of Sales].[Backoffice Transaction Details].[Backoffice Tran Detail Amount]) else (0) Return Fees Order Line Charge / Order Line Charge Total SUM (Order Line Charge Total) if ([Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Confirmed] ='Yes' and [Point of Sales].[Order].[Order is Post Voided] = 'No' and [Point of Sales].[Order Line Charge].[Order Line Charge Type] = 'Return Fee') then ([Point of Sales].[Order Line Charge].[Order Line Charge Total]) else (0) Report Prompt Report PDF Output Team Performance This report serves as a drill through report for the Associate Performance table under the Performance and Sales tab of the Point of Sale dashboard.  You can access the Point of Sale Dashboard in IBM Cognos by navigating to Team Content > SCI Packaged Content > Packaged Dashboards > OMNI > Point of Sales Dashboard. You can access this report by selecting an associate ID from the table and clicking the drill through icon. in the upper-left corner of the page . This drill through report includes columns such as Associate Name, Gross Sales, Amount Per Transaction, Unit Per Transaction, and Registered Customer's Orders. Using this information, you can analyze the individual's performance with respect to their contribution to the gross sales.  It enables them to design strategies to reward and arrange training programs where applicable. Tender Count This report shows the details of all defined tenders in the system. Query Subject Order Payment Method Backoffice Transaction Backoffice Transaction Details Fiscal Calendar Report Columns - All the amount should have this format - $(xx,xxx,xxx.yy). There should be a comma after every three digits from the decimal point. Report Column Query Subject / Query Subject Item Calculation Expected Open Store Amount Backoffice Transaction Details, Back Office Transaction / Backoffice Tran Detail Amount Type, Backoffice Tran Detail Amount, Backoffice Tran Operation Type SUM (Backoffice Tran Detail Amount) Actual Open Store Amount Backoffice Transaction Details , Back Office Transaction / Backoffice Tran Detail Amount Type Backoffice Tran Detail Amount, Backoffice Tran Operation Type SUM (Backoffice Tran Detail Amount) Open Store Variance Expected Open Store Amount (calculated above) Actual Open Store Amount (calculated above) Actual Open Store Amount - Expected Open Store Amount Expected Open Till Amount Backoffice Transaction Details, Back Office Transaction / Backoffice Tran Detail Amount Type Backoffice Tran Detail Amount, Backoffice Tran Operation Type SUM (Backoffice Tran Detail Amount) Actual Open Till Amount Backoffice Transaction Details, Back Office Transaction / Backoffice Tran Detail Amount Type Backoffice Tran Detail Amount, Backoffice Tran Operation Type SUM (Backoffice Tran Detail Amount) Open Till Variance Actual Open Till Amount (calculated above) Expected Open Till Amount (calculated above) Actual Open Till Amount - Expected Open Till Amount Expected Reconcile Till Amount Backoffice Transaction Details, Back Office Transaction / Backoffice Tran Detail Amount Type Backoffice Tran Detail Amount, Backoffice Tran Operation Type SUM (Backoffice Tran Detail Amount) Actual Reconcile Till Amount Backoffice Transaction Details, Back Office Transaction / Backoffice Tran Detail Amount Type Backoffice Tran Detail Amount, Backoffice Tran Operation Type SUM (Backoffice Tran Detail Amount) Reconcile Till Variance Actual Reconcile Till Amount (calculated Above) Expected Reconcile Till Amount (calculated Above) Actual Reconcile Till Amount - Expected Reconcile Till Amount Bank Deposit Amount Backoffice Transaction Details, Back Office Transaction / Backoffice Tran Detail Amount Type, Backoffice Tran Detail Amount, Backoffice Tran Operation Type SUM Expected Close Store Amount Backoffice Transaction Details, Back Office Transaction  / Backoffice Tran Detail Amount Type, Backoffice Tran Detail Amount, Backoffice Tran Operation Type SUM (Backoffice Tran Detail Amount) Actual Close Store Amount Backoffice Transaction Details, Back Office Transaction / Backoffice Tran Detail Amount Type, Backoffice Tran Detail Amount, Backoffice Tran Operation Type SUM (Backoffice Tran Detail Amount) Close Store Variance Actual Close Store Amount (calculated Above) Expected Close Store Amount (calculated Above) Tender Summary (Top Half) Tender Type Backoffice Transaction Details / Backoffice Tran Detail Tender Type ID Combines information from top and bottom half to show data for all tender types Backoffice Transaction].[Backoffice Tran Operation Type] = 'TILL_RECONCILE' [Backoffice Transaction Details].[Backoffice Tran Detail Tender Type ID] in ('Cash', 'Traveller's Check' ,'Checks') In Backoffice Transaction Details / Backoffice Tran Detail Amount SUM[Backoffice Transaction].[Backoffice Tran Operation Type] = 'TILL_RECONCILE' [Backoffice Transaction Details].[Backoffice Tran Detail Amount Type]='In Amount' [Backoffice Transaction Details].[Backoffice Tran Detail Tender Type ID] in ('Cash', 'Traveller's Check' ,'Checks') Out Backoffice Transaction Details / case when [Backoffice Tran Detail Tender Type ID] = 'Checks' then 0 else [Backoffice Tran Detail Amount] SUM [Backoffice Transaction].[Backoffice Tran Operation Type] = 'TILL_RECONCILE' [Backoffice Transaction Details].[Backoffice Tran Detail Amount Type]='Out Amount' [Backoffice Transaction Details].[Backoffice Tran Detail Tender Type ID] in ('Cash', 'Traveller's Check' ,'Checks') Counted Backoffice Transaction Details / case when [Backoffice Tran Detail Tender Type ID] = 'Checks' then [Backoffice Tran Detail Count] else [Backoffice Tran Detail Amount] SUM [Backoffice Transaction].[Backoffice Tran Operation Type] = 'TILL_RECONCILE' [Backoffice Transaction Details].[Backoffice Tran Detail Amount Type]='Entered Amount' [Backoffice Transaction Details].[Backoffice Tran Detail Tender Type ID] in ('Cash', 'Traveller's Check' ,'Checks') Expected Backoffice Transaction Details, Back Office Transaction / Backoffice Tran Detail Amount Type, Backoffice Tran Detail Amount, Tender Type, Backoffice Tran Operation Type Backoffice Tran Detail Amount Type = Expected Amount and Backoffice Tran Operation Type = TILL_RECONCILE Entered Backoffice Transaction Details, Back Office Transaction / Backoffice Tran Detail Amount Type Backoffice Tran Detail Amount, Tender Type, Backoffice Tran Operation Type Backoffice Tran Detail Amount Type = Entered Amount and Backoffice Tran Operation Type = TILL_RECONCILE Tender Type = Cash Variance Expected (calculated above) Entered (calculated above) Entered - Expected ' Number Backoffice Transaction Details / case when [Backoffice Tran Detail Tender Type ID] = 'Checks' then [Backoffice Tran Detail Count] else 0 SUM[Backoffice Transaction].[Backoffice Tran Operation Type] = 'TILL_RECONCILE' [Backoffice Transaction Details].[Backoffice Tran Detail Amount Type]='In Amount' [Backoffice Transaction Details].[Backoffice Tran Detail Tender Type ID] in ('Cash', 'Traveller's Check' ,'Checks') Count Backoffice Transaction Details / case when [Backoffice Tran Detail Tender Type ID] = 'Checks' then [Backoffice Tran Detail Count] else 0 SUM[Backoffice Transaction].[Backoffice Tran Operation Type] = 'TILL_RECONCILE' [Backoffice Transaction Details].[Backoffice Tran Detail Amount Type]='Entered Amount' [Backoffice Transaction Details].[Backoffice Tran Detail Tender Type ID] in ('Cash', 'Traveller's Check' ,'Checks') Variance Number - Count [Backoffice Transaction].[Backoffice Tran Operation Type] = 'TILL_RECONCILE' [Backoffice Transaction Details].[Backoffice Tran Detail Amount Type]='Entered Amount' [Backoffice Transaction Details].[Backoffice Tran Detail Tender Type ID] in ('Cash', 'Traveller's Check' ,'Checks') Tender Summary (Bottom Half) Tender Type Pay Method / Pay Method Amount case when [Point of Sales].[Payment Method].[Pay Method Payment Type] = 'Credit Card'  then (case when ([Point of Sales].[Payment Method].[Pay Method Card Type] is null or [Point of Sales].[Payment Method].[Pay Method Card Type] = '') then 'Credit Card' else [Point of Sales].[Payment Method].[Pay Method Card Type] end) else  [Point of Sales].[Payment Method].[Pay Method Payment Type] end Order is Confirmed = 'Yes' Order is Post Voided='No' Pay Method Payment Type in 'Gift Card','Debit','Credit Card' Payment Method [Order].[Order is Confirmed] = 'Yes' [Order].[Order is Post Voided]='No'             [Payment Method].[Pay Method Payment Type] = 'RoundingAdjustment' [Payment Method].[Is Voided] = 'No' Payment Method / Pay Method Amount SUM[Order].[Order is Confirmed] = 'Yes' [Order].[Order is Post Voided]='No' [Payment Method].[Pay Method Payment Type] in ('Gift Card','Debit','Credit Card') [Payment Method].[Pay Method Amount] > 0 Payment Method / Pay Method Amount SUM [Order].[Order is Confirmed] = 'Yes' [Order].[Order is Post Voided]='No' [Payment Method].[Pay Method Payment Type] = 'RoundingAdjustment' [Payment Method].[Is Voided] = 'No'          [Payment Method].[Pay Method Amount] > 0 Payment Method / Pay Method Amount SUM [Order].[Order is Confirmed] = 'Yes' [Order].[Order is Post Voided]='No' [Payment Method].[Pay Method Payment Type] in ('Gift Card','Debit','Credit Card') [Payment Method].[Pay Method Amount] < 0 Payment Method / Pay Method Amount SUM [Order].[Order is Confirmed] = 'Yes' [Order].[Order is Post Voided]='No' [Payment Method].[Pay Method Payment Type] = 'RoundingAdjustment' [Payment Method].[Is Voided] = 'No' [Payment Method].[Pay Method Amount] < 0 Tender Summary (Top and Bottom Half) Net In - Out Report PDF Output Till Summary This report shows the information related to all the tills in a store. Each till’s summary information is displayed in a separate pages of the report. Query Subject Backoffice Transaction Backoffice Transaction Details Fiscal Calendar Report Columns Report Section Report Column Descriptions/Query Subject Item Filters Top Section Open Till Float Amount SUM (Backoffice Tran Detail Amount) Backoffice Tran Operation Type = 'TILL_OPEN' Backoffice Tran Detail Amount Type = 'Entered Float' Top Section Closing Till Float Amount SUM (Backoffice Tran Detail Amount) Backoffice Tran Operation Type = 'TILL_RECONCILE' Backoffice Tran Detail Amount Type = 'Entered Float' Top Section Till Float Variance Closing Till Float Amount - Open Till Float Amount Tender Summary (Left) Tender Type Backoffice Tran Detail Tender Type ID. Data in the section is grouped by Backoffice Tran Detail Tender Type ID Backoffice Tran Operation Type = 'TILL_RECONCILE' Backoffice Tran Detail Tender Type ID in 'Cash', 'Traveller's Check' ,'Checks' Tender Summary (Left) In SUM (Backoffice Tran Detail Amount) Backoffice Tran Operation Type = 'TILL_RECONCILE' Backoffice Tran Detail Tender Type ID in 'Cash', 'Traveller's Check' Backoffice Tran Detail Amount Type = ‘In Amount’ Tender Summary (Left) Out SUM (Backoffice Tran Detail Amount) Backoffice Tran Operation Type = 'TILL_RECONCILE' Backoffice Tran Detail Tender Type ID in 'Cash', 'Traveller's Check' Backoffice Tran Detail Amount Type = ‘Out Amount’ Tender Summary (Left) Net In - Out Backoffice Tran Operation Type = 'TILL_RECONCILE' Backoffice Tran Detail Tender Type ID in 'Cash', 'Traveller's Check' Tender Summary (Left) Count SUM (Backoffice Tran Detail Amount) Backoffice Tran Operation Type = 'TILL_RECONCILE' Backoffice Tran Detail Tender Type ID in 'Cash', 'Traveller's Check' Backoffice Tran Detail Amount Type = ‘Entered Amount’ Tender Summary (Left) Variance Net - Count Backoffice Tran Operation Type = 'TILL_RECONCILE' Backoffice Tran Detail Tender Type ID in 'Cash', 'Traveller's Check' Tender Summary (Right) Number SUM (Backoffice Tran Detail Count) Backoffice Tran Operation Type = 'TILL_RECONCILE' Backoffice Tran Detail Tender Type ID in  'Checks' Backoffice Tran Detail Amount Type = ‘In Amount’ Tender Summary (Right) Count SUM (Backoffice Tran Detail Count) Backoffice Tran Operation Type = 'TILL_RECONCILE' Backoffice Tran Detail Tender Type ID in  'Checks' Backoffice Tran Detail Amount Type = ‘Entered Amount’ Tender Summary (Right) Variance Number - Count Backoffice Tran Operation Type = 'TILL_RECONCILE' Backoffice Tran Detail Tender Type ID in  'Checks' Bottom Section Cash Backoffice Tran Operation Type. Data in the section is grouped by Backoffice Tran Operation Type Backoffice Tran Operation Type IN 'TILL_LOAN','TILL_PICKUP','PAY_IN','PAY_OUT' Bottom Section Count Count of Backoffice Transaction records Backoffice Tran Operation Type IN 'TILL_LOAN','TILL_PICKUP','PAY_IN','PAY_OUT' Bottom Section Amount SUM (Backoffice Tran Detail Amount) Backoffice Tran Detail Amount Type = ‘Entered Amount’ Report PDF Output Transaction Summary This report shows the summary of all transactions in a store. Query Subject Order Order Capture Info Reprint Receipt Backoffice Transaction Fiscal Calendar Report Columns Report Column Descriptions/Query Subject Item Filters Register Number Order Capture Register ID User Order Capture Operator ID Total Count # of Sale (Count) + # of Return (Count) + # of Post Void (Count) + # Exchanges # All (Count)+ # of Reprint Receipt (Count) + # of Pay In (Count)+ # of Pay Out (Count) + # of Till Loan (Count) + # of No Sales (Count) # of Sale (Count) Count of Orders Order is Confirmed = 'Yes' Order is Post Voided='No' Order Merch Return Line Count = 0 Order Merch Sale Line Count > 0 # of Sale (%) # of Sale (Count) / Total Count # of Return (Count) Count of Orders Order is Confirmed = 'Yes' Order is Post Voided='No' Order Merch Return Line Count > 0 Order Merch Sale Line Count = 0 # of Return (%) # of Return (Count) / Total Count # of Post Void (Count) Count of Orders Order is Post Voided='Yes' # of Post Void (%) # of Post Void (Count) / Total Count # Exchanges # Even (Count) Count of Orders Order is Confirmed = 'Yes' Order is Post Voided='No' Order Merch Return Line Count > 0 Order Merch Sale Line Count > 0 Order Total = 0 # Exchanges # Even (%) # Exchanges # Even (Count) / # Exchanges # All (Count) # Exchanges # Negative (Count) Count of Orders Order is Confirmed = 'Yes' Order is Post Voided='No' Order Merch Return Line Count > 0 Order Merch Sale Line Count > 0 Order Total < 0 # Exchanges # Negative (%) # Exchanges # Negative (Count) / # Exchanges # All (Count) # Exchanges # Positive (Count) Count of Orders Order is Confirmed = 'Yes' Order is Post Voided='No' Order Merch Return Line Count > 0 Order Merch Sale Line Count > 0 Order Total > 0 # Exchanges # Positive (%) # Exchanges # Positive (Count) / # Exchanges # All (Count) # Exchanges # All (Count) Count of Orders Order is Confirmed = 'Yes' Order is Post Voided='No' Order Merch Return Line Count > 0 Order Merch Sale Line Count > 0 # Exchanges # All (%) # Exchanges # All (Count) / Total Count # of Reprint Receipt (Count) SUM (Reprint Receipt Print Counter) Order is Confirmed = 'Yes' Order is Post Voided='No' # of Reprint Receipt (%) # of Reprint Receipt (Count) / Total Count # Orders w Customer ID ORD_ORDERS / PK Customer ID % Orders w Customer ID ORD_ORDERS (# Orders w Customer ID / COUNT PK) * 100 # of Pay In (Count) Count of Backoffice Transaction records Backoffice Tran Operation Type ='PAY_IN' # of Pay In (%) # of Pay In (Count) / Total Count # of Pay Out (Count) Count of Backoffice Transaction records Backoffice Tran Operation Type ='PAY_OUT' # of Pay Out (%) # of Pay Out (Count) / Total Count # of Till Loan (Count) Count of Backoffice Transaction records Backoffice Tran Operation Type ='TILL_LOAN' # of Till Loan (%) # of Till Loan (Count) / Total Count # of No Sales (Count) Count of Backoffice Transaction records Backoffice Tran Operation Type ='NO_SALE' # of No Sales (%) # of No Sales (Count) / Total Count Report PDF Output Fiscal Report The fiscal year indicates the financial year of an organization for calculating financial numbers or reports.  The beginning and the end dates for this purpose vary across countries and companies. For example, some organizations may choose to start their financial year on 1st of Jan every year and end on 31st Dec. Some may choose this based on a particular day of the week every year.  One common pattern is simply to use the Calendar Year.  In this event, 1/1 is the first day, 12/31 is the last day, and the quarters end on 3/31, 6/30, 9/30, and 12/31. However, it complicates year over year (and period over period) comparisons, because the 16th day of 2015 is not the same day of the week as the 16th day of 2016, and Years/Quarters don't always start/end on the same day of the week. Fiscal Year Options: The Fiscal Year defines Quarters as a collection of weeks instead of days, such that the quarters are all composed of complete weeks. When these conventions are used, each year and each quarter always start on the same day of the week, and the 16th day of 2015 will always be the same day of the week as the 16th day of 2016. A common pattern is that a year consists of four quarters.  Each month in the quarter has 4-4-5 weeks , with 13 weeks in each quarter and resulting in 52 weeks in the year. Since years do not EXACTLY have 52 weeks, this creates a 364 day year.  Therefore, a 'catch up' year/quarter must be defined every 4-5 years or so to avoid shifting the start/end of the year too far over time. This has the advantage, as noted, creating year over year and quarter over quarter comparable days which are always the same day of the week - so comparing gets consistent. Note: How to determine the need for the 53rd Week:  If, after laying out the entire 52-week calendar for any given year, there are four or more days left in January during the 53rd week, then a 53rd week is added. For instance, if you look at the 4-5-4 Calendar for 2004-2006, you will see that in 2005 there were only three days remaining in January after the 52nd week (January 29-31). However, in 2006 there were four days remaining in January, so a 53rd week was added on to the end of that year. Fiscal year options: Two calendar types are supported: a.    4-5-4 b.    Gregorian Calendar type  4-5-4: This calendar type stands for 4 quarters, wherein, the 3 months of a quarter, in chronological order, comprise 4, 5 and 4 weeks respectively. Calendar type Gregorian: This is the standard calendar where in the year has 12 months, and each quarter 3 months with specified start and end date for each month and quarter. Calendar Configuration for Fiscal Reporting For reporting purposes, the system has to determine the beginning of each month based on the Fiscal year start and the calendar type.  This is required only once at the time of deployment.  For the subsequent year, these are calculated systemically. Fiscal Calendar Configurations The financial year start date.  This is configured only once during the implementation for the current year. Report Configurations Purpose startOfFiscalyear This is the beginning or the first day of the financial year.  This is configured only once, at the time of implementation, for the current year. The system auto-calculates the subsequent year's start date based on the calendar type. CustIdCaptureReturns Configure POS to prompt for customer proof of identification when returning items CustInfoCaptureReturns Configure POS to collect customer name/address information when returning items Each of the above can be set as mandatory or optional ("allow skip" switches exist for both). Order Configuration Purpose DaysForEligibleReturn Integer.  If an item was fulfilled greater than the configured days, it is not eligible to be returned without a manager permission. NRF Guidelines for 4-5-4 format of Fiscal Year: Due to the layout of the 4-5-4 Calendar (52 weeks x 7 days = 364 days), which results in one remaining day each year, and the occurrence of the Leap Year, it is sometimes necessary to add a 53rd week to the end of the calendar for sales reporting purposes only. This occurs approximately every five to six years, though this is not always the case. 1995, 2000, 2006, and 2012 are all 53-week years. Definitions of key fields in the report are as follows: Field Definition MERCHANDISE ITEM or MERCH ITEM Not a Gift Card AND the NONMERCH flag is OFF SALE ITEM RETURN ITEM positive MERCH item in a transaction negative MERCH item in a transaction and OrderLine.IsReturn=True Purchase Price NON-VAT Store VAT Store Item price EXCLUDING Sales Tax and INCLUDING any price adjustments = PURCHASE PRICE Item price INCLUDING both SALES TAX and any price adjustments = PURCHASE PRICE SALE Transaction containing at least one MERCH ITEM for which PURCHASE PRICE is positive and NO MERCH ITEMS for which PURCHASE PRICE is negative.  IE, at least one SALE ITEM and no RETURN ITEMS. RETURN Transaction containing at least one MERCH ITEM for which PURCHASE PRICE is negative and NO MERCH ITEMS for which PURCHASE PRICE is positive. That is at least one RETURN ITEM and no SALE ITEMS. EXCHANGE Transaction containing at least one POSITIVE and at least one NEGATIVE MERCH ITEM. EVEN EXCHANGE A transaction for which Σ Positive SALES Merch Item Purchase Prices -  (ABS(Σ Negative (RETURN) Merch Item Purchase Prices))= 0.00. NEGATIVE (NEG) EXCHANGE A transaction for which Σ Positive SALES Merch Item Purchase Prices -  (ABS(Σ Negative (RETURN) Merch Item Purchase Prices)) < 0.00. POSITIVE (POS) EXCHANGE A transaction for which Σ Positive SALES Merch Item Purchase Prices -  (ABS(Σ Negative (RETURN) Merch Item Purchase Prices)) > 0.00. Calculations Mechanism TOTAL # OF TRANSACTIONS = [COUNT of all transactions containing at least one MERCH ITEM regardless of sign (positive or negative)] - [COUNT of all such transactions which have been Post Voided)] AVERAGE AMOUNT PER TRANS = TRANSACTION AMOUNT divided by TOTAL # OF TRANSACTIONS ** TOTAL # OF UNITS = [COUNT of SALE ITEMS + COUNT of RETURN ITEMS- (COUNT of SALE ITEMS in transactions which have been Post Voided) - (COUNT of RETURN ITEMS in transactions which have been Post Voided)]. AVERAGE UNITS PER TRANSACTION = TOTAL # OF UNITS divided by TOTAL # OF TRANSACTIONS TOTAL AMOUNT SALES = Σ Positive SALES Merch Item Purchase Prices -  (Σ SALE Merch item Purchase Prices for which trans was POSTVOIDED) TOTAL AMOUNT RETURNS =  (ABS(Σ Negative (RETURN) Merch Item Purchase Prices)) -  (ABS(Σ (RETURN Merch Item Purchase Prices))for which trans was POSTVOIDED) NET SALES = TOTAL AMOUNT SALES - TOTAL AMOUNT RETURNS Dept# and Dept Name are from the Dept associated with each SKU that is sold. Note: Department is currently an optional field in the Item.  If it is not used, no data will be shown in this report. Units Sold = COUNT of SALE ITEMS - (COUNT of SALE ITEMS in transactions which have been Post Voided), for all SKUs in each DEPARTMENT Dept Sales = (Σ Positive (SALES) Merch Item Purchase Prices) -  (Σ SALE Merch item Purchase Prices for which trans was POSTVOIDED), for all SKUs in each DEPARTMENT Discounts = (Σ Manual Item discount applied to Positive Merch Items + Σ Manual Trans discount prorated over Positive Merch Items + Σ Automatic Promotional item or trans discounts applied to Positive Merch Items) - (Σ These same amounts applied to the same type of items in transactions which are Postvoided) for all SKUs in each DEPARTMENT % TOTAL SALES = DEPT SALES for each department divided by TOTAL OF ALL DEPT SALES Calculations: Internal Field (defined for convenience) TRANSACTION AMOUNT  = (Σ Positive (SALES) Merch Item Purchase Prices) +  (ABS(Σ Negative (RETURN) Merch Item Purchase Prices)) -  (Σ SALE Merch item Purchase Prices for which trans was POSTVOIDED) - (ABS(Σ (RETURN Merch Item Purchase Prices for which trans was POSTVOIDED))