# Linked Items

**Permalink:** pos-linkeditems
**Content Length:** 20,384 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:35:31.960771

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Point of Sale&rsaquo;&rsaquo;POS Guides ››Linked Items Linked Items OverviewLink TypesLinked Items ConfigurationSample payloadsLinkedItemType EntityLinked Items - WorkflowLinked Items - OfflineLimitationsServices Overview Linked items are products or components that are associated with each other&nbsp;for operational or upsell or cross-selling items or to abide by legal procedures when selling items. This functionality ensures that related items are suggested, sold, or processed together—streamlining sales, improving customer service and in some cases managing inventory.&nbsp; Use Linked Items to automate common pairings and reduce missed sales opportunities. Configure optional, add-ons (like warranties or accessories) to prompt cashiers during checkout — this ensures consistent upselling without relying on manual reminders. This capability allows additional items to be added to the transaction along with an original/parent item. These linked items are configured at a product level and the linking could be a single item or a group of items. They are configured so that when the parent item is selected, the system can automatically add, suggests, or require one or more related items. There are two types of linked items and one type of 'suggested' cross-selling linked item. The linked item is the parent-child relationship. The link is directional - the parent triggers the link logic during the sale workflow. And during returns, the link is&nbsp;bidirectional. &nbsp; Link Types 1. Forced linked items These items are immediately added to the transaction along with the parent item without any additional actions from the user. These forced-linked items also cannot be manually removed from the transaction and are only removed when the parent item is removed. Some examples of these types of forced-linked items are: Purchase of A/C refrigerant requires a deposit The purchase of a trailer requires tire and trailer fees. The purchase of a battery requires a core fee. 2.&nbsp;Elective/optional linked items These items are shown as optional when the parent item is scanned. A pop-up appears with optional add-on items that the user can select and add to the transaction or decline and proceed with adding the original item alone. Some examples of these types of elective-linked items are: Warranties – Select warranty duration and coverage Assembly Services - Select assembly services (one or many) Force-linked and Optional linked items are represented on the UI with a link icon to the parent.&nbsp; The parent-child relationship persists into the order data. 3. Add-On Items These items are also shown as optional when the parent item is scanned. A pop-up appears with&nbsp;optional&nbsp;items&nbsp;that an user can select and add to the transaction or decline and proceed with adding the original item alone. Some examples of these types of elective-linked items are: Product recommendations:&nbsp; Motor Oil, Fuel Stabilizer, Gas can, Adapter, Alternative Generators for Generator Add-On Items Type of parent-child relationship does not show a bonded link to parent. Hence, these Add-on Items, once added to the cart, represent themselves like any regular item - the parent is only used to 'trigger' child suggestions but the relationship does not persist into the order data. &nbsp; Linked Items Configuration Child items that need to be linked to parent&nbsp;should be defined as items in the item master database. Once these child items are created, they can be linked to the parent item by configuring the appropriate link type. Let's understand the different steps of linking child to parent. Create a LinkedItemType record by defining&nbsp;the attributes for the&nbsp;LinkedItemType. Below are the key attributes. soldInStores: If this is applicable to be sold in stores displaySequence: If you have more than one linkedItemType for parent, then the lower sequence will be displayed on UI first. displayName: This is a localized displayed name that will be used for display purposed on UI. linkedItemSelectionType: This is the system-seeded data that you will choose from - SingleSelect,&nbsp;MultiSelect isForcedLinkOnSale: If this needs to be automatically added to parent without user intervention. isLinkedToParent: If this needs to be linked to parent as an optional capability. autoReturnLinkedItemWithParent: If true, when&nbsp;Parent item is added to return cart, then all linked items which has eligible returnable qty, will be added automatically. autoReturnParentWithLinkedItem:&nbsp;If true, when&nbsp;child item is added to return cart, then parent item which has eligible returnable qty, will be added automatically. Linking to Parent: Create the link&nbsp;in the LinkedItem entity. Below are the key attributes. parentItem: Parent ItemId You can repeat the below for n child items for the parent. linkedItemId: childItemId linkedItemType:&nbsp;linkedItemType that you created above displaySequence: Use this to sort child items within a particular linkedItemType. The configuration of creating parent, child items, defining linkedItemType and linking to parent via linkedItem can all be done in the UI configuration.&nbsp; For the below mod types, &nbsp;‘Evaluate Linked Item’ attribute should be marked as "true". This can be done from order configuration screen. Order: "ModTypeId": "Order::Add" "ModTypeId": "Order::Cancel" "ModTypeId": "Order::PostVoid", OrderLine: "ModTypeId": "QuantityDetail::QuantityStatus::Increase" "ModTypeId": "QuantityDetail::QuantityStatus::Decrease" "ModTypeId": "OrderLine::Cancel::System", "ModTypeId": "OrderLine::Cancel::Customer", "ModTypeId": "OrderLine::Cancel", ReturnLine: "ModTypeId": "ReturnOrderLine::Add", "ModTypeId": "ReturnOrderLine::Cancel", "ModTypeId": "ReturnOrderLine::Quantity::Increase", "ModTypeId": "ReturnOrderLine::Quantity::Decrease" &nbsp; The Linked Items feature only supports linking parent to child items and not the grandchild, i.e. cascading 'grandchild' prompting at cart for child items having their own child item and so on are not supported as part of the linked items feature. Sample payloads LinkedItemType Entity Use this URL to create the record: POST&nbsp;{{url}}/item/api/item/linkedItemType/save Forced-Link Type:&nbsp; Force-link-linkedItemType{ &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;DisplaySequence&quot;: 2, &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;AutoReturnParentWithLinkedItem&quot;: true, &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;IsForcedLinkOnSale&quot;: true, &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;IsLinkedToParent&quot;: true, &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;LinkedItemTypeId&quot;: &quot;CoreFees&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;DisplayName&quot;: &quot;Core Fees&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;AutoReturnLinkedItemWithParent&quot;: true, &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;LinkedItemSelectionType&quot;: { &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;SelectionTypeId&quot;: &quot;MultiSelect&quot; &nbsp; &nbsp; }, &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;LocalizedData&quot;: [], &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;SoldInStores&quot;: true } Optional-Link Type Optional link - linkedItemType{ &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;DisplaySequence&quot;: 3, &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;AutoReturnParentWithLinkedItem&quot;: false, &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;IsForcedLinkOnSale&quot;: false, &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;IsLinkedToParent&quot;: true, &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;LinkedItemTypeId&quot;: &quot;Warranty&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;DisplayName&quot;: null, &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;AutoReturnLinkedItemWithParent&quot;: true, &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;LinkedItemSelectionType&quot;: { &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;SelectionTypeId&quot;: &quot;SingleSelect&quot; &nbsp; &nbsp; }, &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;LocalizedData&quot;: [], &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;SoldInStores&quot;: true } Add-On Link Type: Add on - LinkedItemType{ &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;DisplaySequence&quot;: 4, &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;AutoReturnParentWithLinkedItem&quot;: false, &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;IsForcedLinkOnSale&quot;: false, &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;IsLinkedToParent&quot;: false, &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;LinkedItemTypeId&quot;: &quot;Suggested&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;DisplayName&quot;: null, &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;AutoReturnLinkedItemWithParent&quot;: false, &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;LinkedItemSelectionType&quot;: { &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;SelectionTypeId&quot;: &quot;MultiSelect&quot; &nbsp; &nbsp; }, &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;LocalizedData&quot;: [], &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;SoldInStores&quot;: true } Linking child to parent: POST&nbsp;&nbsp;{{url}}/item/api/item/item/save LinkedItem Sample{ &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;ItemId&quot;: &quot;ParentItem1&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;LinkedItem&quot;: [ &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; { &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;LinkedItemId&quot;: &quot;LinkedItem1&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;LinkedItemType&quot;: { &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;LinkedItemTypeId&quot;: &quot;CoreFees&quot; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; }, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;DisplaySequence&quot;: &quot;1&quot; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; }, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; { &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;LinkedItemId&quot;: &quot;LinkedItem2&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;LinkedItemType&quot;: { &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;LinkedItemTypeId&quot;: &quot;Warranty&quot; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; }, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;DisplaySequence&quot;: &quot;2&quot; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; }, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; { &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;LinkedItemId&quot;: &quot;LinkedItem3&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;LinkedItemType&quot;: { &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;LinkedItemTypeId&quot;: &quot;CoreFees&quot; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; }, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;DisplaySequence&quot;: &quot;3&quot; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; } &nbsp; &nbsp; ] } &nbsp; Linked Items - Workflow The Linked Items Workflow outlines how the POS system handles the relationship between a parent item and its linked (child) items, from setup to cart behavior and transaction completion. Sale workflow Item Scan / Entry at POS -&nbsp;When a cashier scans or adds the parent item: The POS looks up linked items using the item catalog or service. Based on each linked item’s type: Forced items are auto-added to the cart. Optional items trigger a prompt (UI modal, pop-up&nbsp;panel) Add-on items trigger a prompt (UI modal, pop-up&nbsp;panel) &nbsp; Return workflow Return workflow of linked items can be triggered on individual child items or from parent items. All the above return workflow are supported. Flow-1: Cashier scans the order receipt and then selects the item from the transaction tab or scans the item directly. User can choose to add child item to return cart. And if "autoReturnParentWithLinkedItem" is TRUE, then parent will be automatically added to return cart. &nbsp;User can choose to add parent item to return cart. And if "autoReturnLinkedItemWithParent" is TRUE, then all child items&nbsp;will be automatically added to return cart. Flow-2: User scans the item first and then orders receipt later The same logic will be applied and executed once the return item matches the scanned order. &nbsp; Linked Items - Offline At this time, linked items are not supported if POS is running in&nbsp;offline mode. &nbsp; Limitations There are existing limitations to the linked items. The Linked Items feature only supports linking parent to child items and not the grandchild. No support to define location-specific linked Items. For Example: Item_1 has force linked Item Item_2 in Loc_1 but Item_1 does not have&nbsp;force linked Item Item_2 in Loc_2. This cannot be achieved. No modifiers on Linked items: Items added as forced-linked&nbsp;or Optional-linked cannot be modified. (No modification of Quantity, price, tax, discount, sales associates, void&nbsp;etc) Quantity update on parent will automatically update all linked child items. Optional-Link items once added to parent&nbsp;cannot be removed. Omni sale is not supported. Parent Items having linked Items cannot be sold as omni sale (STA, PAS, STS, BOPIS etc) Unvalidated returns are not supported.&nbsp; If a parent item is not linked to a parent sale order, it's linked children are not retrieved.&nbsp; Forced and Optional Linked items: These&nbsp;types of linked items can be configured to have cart forms, but cart forms cannot have mandatory fields. Only Skip is supported; void is not supported if forms are mandatory. If a parent&nbsp;line has&nbsp;PreOrderLineAdd forms, in a return workflow when&nbsp;autoReturnParentWithLinkedItem = true and the user adds a child item to the return cart, this will auto add parent line to the return cart. During this workflow,&nbsp;PreOrderLineAdd forms on the parent line will not be triggered because adding parent line action&nbsp;happens through backend logic and preOrderLineAdd is front end logic. Workaround is to have this as postOrderLineAdd for return workflow. No Offline support. &nbsp; Behavior/Impact on related features No changes to receipt. Linked items will be displayed&nbsp;as regular items. No changes to Electronic Journal: Linked items will show&nbsp;as regular items. If a parent item and/or its&nbsp;child has configured cart input forms or SKU prompts. This is supported. Resuming a suspended order persists the links between parent-child. Expanded cart supports linked items. &nbsp; Services The following&nbsp;are the key APIs related to cart forms.&nbsp;Refer to the API documentation for additional details on&nbsp;each service. Service Component Service EndPoint Evaulate API posservice /commerceservice-facade/api/item/linkedItem/evaluate LinkedItemType Item /item/api/item/linkedItemType/save LinkedItem Item /item/api/item/save &nbsp; &nbsp;