# POS Cart Configuration

**Permalink:** poscartccnfiguration
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Store/Process & Configuration Guides/Point of Sale/POS Classic Guides/POS Order Selling/Selling/POS Cart Configuration
**Content Length:** 96,225 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:02:46.194031

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Store››Process & Configuration Guides››Point of Sale››POS Classic Guides››POS Order Selling››Selling ››POS Cart Configuration POS Cart Configuration POS Cart ConfigurationGeneral Cart ConfigurationsRolesGrantsUI Resources and Grants - Controlling Visibility of POS FunctionsSelected examples of POS UI Resources currently available:Override Resources and Grants - Controlling Usability of POS Functions via Manager "Key" overrideSelected examples of POS Override Resources currently available:POS Preference ConfigurationsPOS Preference Configurations Examples - General ConfigurationsPOS Preference Configurations examples - POS Store ConfigsReturns ConfigurationsReturns Default Reason, Disposition and Error consolidation codes:Returns Static Table Picklist ConfigurationsPOS - Receipt ParametersPOS RFID ConfigurationsRFID Related GrantStore RFID ParametersPublishing Configuration Changes and Syncing POS DevicesConfiguration Services, UI's and Entities This guide outlines the configurations that allow retailers to customize and control the POS Cart experience. General Cart Configurations Retailers can configure various Sale and Cart flow options with the following settings: UI Resources and Grants - role based control of function visibility Override Resources and Grants - role based control of function usability Preferences - org/store level switch settings which can configure other differences in behavior, such as whether to prompt for Reason Codes or not in a Return context. Note: A function can be made visible to the user-based grants for the different roles available in the retail store. Function ResourceID - A ResourceID is created for every function in POS and is recorded within the organization entity. For example, the following are the RecourseID's for your reference: Org UI Resource Configurations Purpose ui::posservice::menu:pos-cart Provides user access to the Cart function. Permissions are granted to the user for this ResourceID, thus enabling the user to use the Cart function from the Main Menu. ui::posservice::itemdiscountamount Provides user access to the Discount by Amount function. Permissions are granted to the user for this ResourceID, thus enabling the user to use the Discount by Amount function from the Item Modify Menu. ui::posservice::menu::postvoid Provides user access to the Postvoid function. Permissions are granted to the user for this ResourceID, thus enabling the user to use the Postvoid function from the Main Menu. Roles A POS user is associated with a role and these RoleID's are recorded within the organization entity. For example, the entity can be a Store Manager or a Store Associate. Grants Matrix is established within the organization entity. Each role is associated with an appropriate function, such as resourceID. Users are assigned with permissions for their associated roles. For example: In an organization, both Store Manager and Store Associate roles can be assigned with permissions to ui::posservice::menu:pos-cart resourceID. This enables the user to perform both the roles as a Store Manager and Store Associate and use the Cart function on the main Omni menu. If the only Store Manager has the permission to ui::posservice::itemdiscountamount resourceID and not Store Associate, then the Store Associate will not be able to access the Cart function from the Item Modify menu when logged into POS. Grants or permissions can be assigned batch-wise when appropriate for efficiency. For example, a Role which has the grant to ui::posservice::* would have visibility to all three of the ResourceIDs mentioned above. UI Resources and Grants - Controlling Visibility of POS Functions Grants to these ResourceIds determine whether or not a given function is shown at POS to a user, based on the role. Example - ui::posservice::quantity resourceId - if user role does not have this grant, this cart function key will not be visible when that user is logged into the app. Selected examples of POS UI Resources currently available: ui::posservice::allowvoidreturnfee ui::posservice::priceoverrideamount, ui::posservice::assignsalesassociatetoitem, ui::posservice::productcatalog::AddTo::Cart, ui::posservice::assignsalesassociatetotransaction, ui::posservice::productcatalog::AddTo::PickupinStore, ui::posservice::itemdiscountamount, ui::posservice::productcatalog::AddTo::ShiptoAddress, ui::posservice::itemdiscountpercent, ui::posservice::productcatalog::addto::workspace, ui::posservice::itemgiftreceipt, ui::posservice::quantity, ui::posservice::itemnotonfile, ui::posservice::reprintlasttrans, ui::posservice::itemtaxoverrideamount, ui::posservice::resume, ui::posservice::itemtaxoverridepercent, ui::posservice::suspend, ui::posservice::itemvoid, ui::posservice::taxexempt, ui::posservice::managertillfunction, ui::posservice::taxexempt, ui::posservice::menu:pos-backoffice, ui::posservice::transactiongiftreceipt, ui::posservice::menu:pos-cart, ui::posservice::transdiscountamount, ui::posservice::menu:pos-globalsearch, ui::posservice::transdiscountpercent, ui::posservice::menu:pos-productcatalog, ui::posservice::transvoid, ui::posservice::modifycustomerforcart, ui::posservice::typebarcode, ui::posservice::modifypromotion, ui::posservice::vas, ui::posservice::modifyshippingmethod, ui::posservice::voidtender, ui::posservice::nonmerchitems, ui::posservice::overridevas, ui::posservice::overrideshippingcharge, ui::posservice::postvoid, ui::posservice::sendsale, ui::posservice::orderlineeta, ui::posservice::ordernotes::view ui::clienteling::customer::employeeidview ui::clienteling::customer::employeeidedit ui::posservice::refreshtender ui::posservice::deposit:view Override Resources and Grants - Controlling Usability of POS Functions via Manager "Key" override For further details, see the Manager Override/Routing Process page. The logic to allow a user to use a given function with/without Manager Key is not global and can vary with different roles. A user can view a function via UI grants (previous), if provided with the permission or grant. However, the retailer can choose to further secure that visible function via an Override grant. If a user has grant to an override resource for a function, then the function will be directly enabled for that user and the user will not require the Manager "Key" to be provided. If a user does not have the grant to an override resource for a function, then the function may be visible but will not be directly useable for that user. To use the function, another user who has the grant to the override resource (an approving "manager") can provide their "Manager Key" credentials, which consist of their UserId and a PIN code. The Override grants perform a similar security function to the UI grants but do not require the user to log off the app. An approving "manager" user providing the Key credentials does not replace/logoff the original user. The original user will be granted temporary one-time access to the function following the approval. After completing the function, the original user will lose the temporary access, and would once again require approval key to later perform the function. For example, following is the Override Resource for "Postvoid" for your reference: Org Override Resource Configurations Purposes overrideaccess::posservice::postvoid Provides user access to the Postvoid function. Permissions are granted to the user for this ResouceID, thus enabling the user to use the Postvoid function. If a user role does NOT have grant to this ResourceID, selecting Postvoid function and a transaction causes the Manager Auth screen to be displayed. Postvoid will not be permitted until credentials of a user with the grant are provided. Selected examples of POS Override Resources currently available: overrideaccess::clienteling::activity::delete overrideaccess::posservice::reloadgiftcard overrideaccess::clienteling::customer::customeradd overrideaccess::posservice::reprinttranssearch overrideaccess::clienteling::customer::customeredit overrideaccess::posservice::resume overrideaccess::customer::customer::delete overrideaccess::posservice::returns overrideaccess::posservice::allowvoidreturnfee overrideaccess::posservice::suspend overrideaccess::posservice::balancegiftcard overrideaccess::posservice::taxexempt overrideaccess::posservice::itemdiscountamount overrideaccess::posservice::transactiongiftreceipt overrideaccess::posservice::itemdiscountpercent overrideaccess::posservice::transdiscountamount overrideaccess::posservice::itemgiftreceipt overrideaccess::posservice::transdiscountpercent overrideaccess::posservice::itemnotonfile overrideaccess::posservice::transvoid overrideaccess::posservice::itemtaxoverrideamount overrideaccess::posservice::voidtender overrideaccess::posservice::itemtaxoverridepercent overrideaccess::posservice::webaccess overrideaccess::posservice::itemvoid overrideaccess::posservice:priceoverrideamount overrideaccess::posservice::overrideshippingcharge overrideaccess::posservice:purchasegiftcard overrideaccess::posservice::overridevas overrideaccess::posservice::postvoid overrideaccess::posservice::returnage POS Preference Configurations POS Preference Configurations are assigned at an Organization or at a profile level. They are not role-based. Preferences are divided into POS General Configurations and POS Store Configurations. This division is based on whether a given switch is likely to remain the same across all stores or it may vary from store to store. They can be established via Postman or json script or Omni Enterprise Config UI. Select Application Configuration > Manage POS Configuration > POS Configuration > POS General or POS Store Configurations. Two examples of POS Preference Configurations from each preference service Service POS Preference Configuration Datatype Purpose POS General Configurations GCMaskIssueMin Currency Configure the minimum amount for which a Gift Card item may be sold. POS Store Configurations InactivityTimeoutWithinTrans Integer Number of minutes of inactivity before user is auto-logged out of the application, if the user is currently in the Cart screen. Another timer configuration governs the auto-logout if the user is not in the Cart screen. POS Preference Configurations Examples - General Configurations Common Configurations Seed/Default AllowskipCustIdCapturePC False AllowskipReturnCustInfo True AllowskipTransSearchReturns True AllowskipcustIdcaptureReturns True BlindReturn False SalesAssociatesItemLevel True SplitTenderForSale True VoidGctenderCardDetail False ItemCartGroupingField Null by default. Accepts alphanumeric input.  Currently the only valid option is FulfillmentGroupId. If this is Null, POS will evaluate criteria for grouping cart items - delivery method, shipping charge, address, chronology of item entry - and display on the cart screen as per those rules. If this is FulfillmentGroupId, POS will use the same criteria to assign Fulfillment Group Id values to orderline records and use that attribute to group the item. In a straight base situation, there will be no visible difference either way but some customers may wish to manipulate the logic and assign items to FulfillmentGroupIds in a custom manner and this setting gives that flexibility. ReturnReasonCodes False ReturnDispositionCodes False ReturnCodesEnd False ReturnMatchEnd False CustIdcaptureReturns False CustInfoCaptureReturns False GcMaskIssueMin 5 GcMaskIssueMax 5000 GcMaskReloadMin 0.01 GcMaskReloadMax 5000 Gift Card Masking (giftCardMasking) BooleanTrue if enabled, gift card masking is allowed Show Delivery Method Total (showDeliveryMethodTotal) BooleanTrue If enabled, will display the delivery method totals under the delivery method subheader for omni transaction. Use Default Shipping Address (useDefaultShippingAddress) BooleanFalse If true, the default shipping address for the customer is added to the order. If the flag is set to false the user manually selects the address from the displayed address options. Manually Lookup Shipping Methods (manualLookupShipMethods) BooleanFalse If true, the user has to manually look up the shipping methods via a Calculate Shipping button. If the flag is set to false the shipping methods are automatically loaded by current POS Ship to Address logic. Both approaches call the same API ../snh/shippingmethod.  The advantage to the manual button is that it gives the retailer opportunity to return the list of shipping methods extensibly using custom logic if they don't want to rely on current POS base logic. (1) afterTransactionJumpTo Never (Default), Product Guide, Logout AllowOrderAndItemNotes False (Default) When the business flag is enabled, a clip icon is displayed at the toolbar to highlight that the user has the ability to add order notes and Note button is displayed upon left swipe at the item level. Also, Notes option is displayed at the Modify button. The notes option is displayed to the users with grant ui::posservice::ordernotes::view. In case the grant is missing at the user role but the Business Flag is enabled, Notes option is not displayed to the user. DisplayDeliveryDateOnOrderLine False (Default) When the business flag is enabled, an ETA label is displayed against an item at the Cart screen. This label displays the estimated delivery date for the Ship To or Pick Up at store orders for users with grant ui::posservice::orderlineeta. In case the grant is not available the label simply displays Not Available text. AllowOverrideOnReturnAge False (Default) When the business flag is set to true users will be able to return old orders by overriding the eligible return window configuration. In addition to the business flag the user must have the grant overrideaccess::posservice::returnage associated to their role to bypass the age check policy. Enable Override Refund Option Upon Failure True (Default) This attribute determines if refund be processed through alternate payment types if automatic refund fails. If this flag is turned off, this is skipped and user can continue without completing the refund process. Support Payment Cloud Solution (Also see related Interval and Timeout parameters following) False (Default) If true, then POS payment plugin will support payment cloud implementation using server end points. In this case, server will talk to cloud APIs of payment gateways. If false, then UI will interact with terminal directly without any server support. GatewayTransStatusInterval Only relevant if Support Payment Cloud Solution is True The field indicates time interval in seconds, for which transaction status api will be called by UI during cloud gateway interaction. If not configured, programmatic default 5 seconds GatewayTransTimeout Only relevant if Support Payment Cloud Solution is True The field indicates payment transaction timeout in seconds, after which cloud payment apis will be timed out. If not configured, programmatic default 60 seconds enableStoreSaleMetrics When this is enabled the UI should show the store sale metrics icon in Cart, Customer, Catalog and Home screens.  See the POS Metrics and App Reports guides for technical details on how to enable the data collection. Disable Keyboard on Force Focus (disableKeyboardAutoPopup) When this configuration is enabled, the UI will prevent the on-screen keyboard from popping up when the forms text entry field is force focused. The user would have to tap within the text box to display the keyboard. This configuration only works when a physical keyboard is not detected. Enable Validation For Order State (validateOrderState) BooleanFalse When this configuration is enabled, an API is called to evaluate the order state in order to determine the state of buttons or sections to be shown on the POS screens. For example, “do not enable the Deposit function unless the order state indicates that at least $X.XX has been tendered at Order Summary”. The evaluation result can be derived via custom code and returned through the new API. More information and use cases can be found in ProActive under APIs - POS - POSSERVICES - Featured APIs. Customer Configuration CustomerMandatoryOrderCreation True (2) promptCustomerSearch Never (Default), Cart, New Transaction, Before Receipt, Checkout, New Transaction and Checkout (2) allowSkipOnCustomerAssign True Enable Quick Item Entry False Determines if item entry text field should be displayed on cart screen.  If enabled, a text field is displayed on cart screen to enter the item by typing without navigating to Type Bar Code from menu. If this attributed is not enabled, user can be select Type Bar Code to manually enter the item. Note - items can always be entered by scanning regardless of this setting (regardless of whether the text field is displayed or not). Default Cursor On Item Entry Field True Default Numeric Keyboard False When the flag is set to True, on quick item entry, the application displays a numeric keyboard. Users can still switch to the alphabet mode by selecting it on the keyboard. Allow Additional Detail On Customer Shipping Address False. This business flag controls the display of additional fields on Ship To Address. When this flag is set to True user will be able to add additional customer details on the shipping address. These new details include Ship To Customer First/Last Name, Email and Phone Number. Customer Address Not Mandatory for Pickup at Store False. This business flag controls which form is displayed during the add new customer Pickup at Store flow. When off, user is prompted with the full shipping form to collect the customer information. When on, the user is prompted with the customer quick add form to collect only the information necessary for the pickup. Enforce Control of Ship To Countries False. If the business flag is set to true, shipping will not be allowed for countries which have the "Restrict Shipping" flag set to true in POS Country. Enable Validation on Customer Activation False.  If this business flag is set to true, a validation function is called when the associate attempts to activate a customer. Purpose of this function is to activate the customer within the Point of Sale application, only if certain set of conditions/validations defined by the client through custom implementation is met. To facilitate this kind of requirement, on activating a customer in Point of Sale, we need custom logic to check for certain validations. If it passes, no custom action is required; return to base. Otherwise, return some custom validation message which indicates that the user should follow certain steps; as a result, the customer does not get activated. POS Country CountryId CountryId should be 2 character ISO code US CountryName US IsDefault True CountryId CountryId should be 2 character ISO code IN CountryName India Restrict Shipping False. This Flag works in conjunction with the "Enforce Control of Ship To Countries" at Customer Config. If set to True Ship To Order is not allowed for related country. POS Country: CountryID should be entered using only uppercase letters POS Preference Configurations examples - POS Store Configs ReceiptConfig Seed/Default AutoPrintFiscalReceipt False PrintOrEmailRequired True PrintSuspendReceipt True ReceiptMaxQuantity 5 ReprintFiscalReceipt True FromAddress Receipt@manh.com EmailSubject Receipt EmailBody Receipt PrintReceiptOnReturns Both Possible value and explanation Store Copy: This will always print store copy of return receipt, even when customer receipt is chosen to be sent by email. Customer Copy: This will not print store copy of return receipt but just the customer receipt. Both: This will always print store copy and customer copy. Publish outbound for custom email False Publish PDF receipt for custom email False Either "Publish outbound for custom email" or "Publish PDF receipt for custom email" can be configured as True and not both. "Publish PDF receipt for custom email" will work only when "Publish outbound for custom email" = setup as False. Enable Persistent VAT Tax Codes False Store Common Configuration (3) linkSalesAssociatePrompt Never (Default), Cart, New Transaction (3) allowSkipLinkAssoc True AllowDelinkSalesAssociate True AllowLinkMultiAssoc True Enable Currency Formatting False If this option is set to True, POS, Back Office and Receipt display all amount fields formatted based on Default Store Currency and Default Store Language. Default Currency determines the currency symbol and number of decimals for a currency and Language (really "locale") determines the formatting. Example: combination of defaultCurrency USD with defaultLanguage en should have 2 decimals, the decimal indicator should be "." not ",", and the currency symbol $ should be prefixed. Locales/currencies supported are inline with the ones supported by Cloud Framework. Note: Transactions with combination local and foreign currency, including returns of past purchases with foreign currencies (i.e., not same as local store) are not supported at this time. DefaultStoreCurrency USD Please configure with valid 3 character ISO currency code - ex. USD, CAD, EUR. NOTE - Backoffice has a parallel configuration backoffice>storeConfiguration>storeBaseCurrency setting. Although the BO default currency and the Cart currency are set independently, they should be consistent - do not set one for EUR and the other for CAD for example. DefaultStoreLanguage en Please use valid locale supported by the MAO Cloud framework - from organization>locales (4) Show Item Language Selector False LinkAssociateBfrScan False InactivityTimeoutWithinTrans 15 InactivityTimeoutWithoutTrans 10 ReceivingFieldPayOut False DateFormat None (Default) If this set to a particular format, irrespective of the user's locale, this format will be used to display the dates in the application. Possible formats are MM-DD-YYYY , DD-MM-YYYY, YYYY-MM-DD If a particular date format is set, the time format cannot be set as 'None'. TimeFormat None (Default) If this set to a particular format, irrespective of the user's locale, this format will be used to display the time in the application. Possible formats are 12 hour, 24 hour If a particular time format is set, the date format cannot be set as 'None'. delayPTSessionTillPayment If true, will delay Payment Terminal Session to start Until Time of Payment isValidEmployee False validateEmployeeWithUser False AutoLink Employee Returns to Employee Default - False This attribute determines if the system has to consider the employee id while creating a return order. If enabled the system checks for the associated employee id on the original order and links it to the return order. showSuggestedPromo False defaultLocationSearchRadiusUOM Miles – this determines the default unit of measure that is passed to the map component for Pickup searches. For example, if the user searches within radius 10 the default UOM determines whether this is 10 Miles or 10 Kilometers. allowSendSale False – this is the business flag to enable the Send Sale function. If this is True, Send Sale function is available to those whose roles have the grant ui::posservice::sendsale ValidateItemFulfillmentMethodsAtPOS Default - False When set to True the application checks for the flags for Ship To Address, Ship To Store or Pick Up In Store option for the Selling Attributes of the Master Item record and only allows creation of these type of orders if the appropriate flag is also set to True. Number of Retries Allowed Upon Gift Card Activation or Reload Failure Default - 0 This determines the number of retries allowed in case of Gift Card Activation/Reload Decline scenarios. If it is 0, user can continue to the next step without Retry. customerEmailDomain Configure email domains which are auto-suggested when user is adding customer email data. To configure multiple email domains, type a list with domains separated by one of these delimiters ; : , 1. Example of a configured domain array delimited with semicolons: @verizon.net;@manh.com;@gmail.com;@hotmail.com;@yahoo.com;@aol.com 2. If nothing is configured here, this is the list of base default domains which are shown: DEFAULT - @gmail.com, @hotmail.com, @yahoo.com, @rediff.com Prompt For Potential Duplicates In Cart Default - False When the business flag is set to true the application validates items in the Cart and display a pop up highlighting that there are items added multiple times on the order. Enable Compact Cart Default - True When set to True, the cart/order summary screens will display limited item information (short description, quantity and extended price) in order to maximize the number of items displayed on the screen for the transaction. The user will be able to view expand/collapse item information on the cart screen by clicking on +/- icons. When set to False, all item information (ie. image, description, item modifiers, customer extension points, etc) will be displayed as soon as the item is added to the cart. Calculate Tax On Demand Default - False When this flag is set to true and user adds/scans items in the cart, only price information is added but taxes are deferred until user clicks on checkout. This is applicable only to processBarcode API call. Any modification performed on cart like manual discounts, price override, return lines added etc will override this flag and get the tax information. Store users will also have an option in cart to manually trigger tax calculation for items in cart, this will also get taxes and will override this flag and get the tax information. App Switch Countdown Default - 30 Countdown (In Seconds) which will be used to switch application between online/offline - this is independent of the other inactivity timers since used when the Cloud servers cannot be reached to read the status of these timers UI Response Timeout in Seconds Recommended Value - 21 This business flag controls the amount of time (seconds) for which the UI will wait for a response from the cloud before displaying the timeout notification. Notify Online Offline Boolean - False Notify user about network or internet connectivity in online or offline app. Give user visibility to cloud availability so they can choose to switch, from Online to Offline or vice versa. If this is not set, the user must decide whether the network is available or not. Online Switch Alert Dismiss Duration in Minutes Default - 30 Countdown (In Minutes) which will be used to show the reminder to switch application offline to online. This works in conjunction with "Notify Online Offline" switch. Regardless of the value entered on the config-UI only integer data is saved - i.e., 30.5 will be saved as 30. Significance: If Notify Online Offline FALSE this "Dismiss" setting has no effect If Notify Online Offline TRUE and This setting is null or 0, user is reminded of the Network availability via an alert at conclusion of every transaction on the offline POS app, until they choose to switch from Offline to Online POS. This setting is <> 0 (ex., 30), user can choose to dismiss the reminder. It will not be shown again until conclusion of another transaction after configured minutes (30) have passed. Location Search Radius Config (5) Location Search Radius Config Customer Contact Config (6) Customer Contact Config ID (1) After Transaction Jump To: This preference will be configured as "Never" by default, which means that the landing page after each transaction is completed, will display the cart screen. There are two other possible configurations which are explained below: Cart: This is configured after every transaction is complete, such as sales, return, manager functions or a gift card transaction. Once the transaction is complete the Cart screen is displayed. Catalog: This is configured after every transaction is complete, such as sales, return, manager functions or a gift card transaction. Once the transaction is complete the Product Guide (Catalog) screen is displayed. Login: This is configured after every transaction complete, such as sales, return, manager functions or a gift card transaction. The session will be logged out and the user will be requested to login again for further transactions. (2) Prompt Customer Search: This preference will be configured as "Never" by default, which means that the prompt will not be shown by default. Below are some of the triggers that can initiate the linking of customer prompt to a transaction: Cart: When an associate navigates to cart screen using any option on the handheld device, the system prompts will be displayed. The user can choose to skip based on the "allowSkiponCustoAssign" flag. If the skip is not allowed then the associate will be forced to add customer details before proceeding to cart screen. If a customer is added in that session the prompt will not be displayed again until the transaction is complete. New Transaction: When a new transaction is created by adding the first item to cart, the customer prompt will be displayed, user can choose to skip based on the "allowSkiponCustoAssign" flag. If the skip is not allowed then the associate will be forced to add customer details before proceeding to cart screen. If a customer is added for this transaction, then the prompt will not be displayed again until the transaction is complete. Checkout: When associate navigates to checkout screen, the customer prompt will be displayed, user can choose to skip based on the "allowSkiponCustoAssign" flag. If the skip is not allowed then the associate will be forced to add customer details before proceeding to Cart screen. If a customer is added in that session the prompt will not be displayed again until the transaction is complete. Before Receipt: After completion of a payment and the balance due is equal to 0 (zero), and before heading to the receipt screen, the customer prompt will be displayed, user can choose to skip based on the "allowSkiponCustoAssign" flag. If the skip is not allowed then the associate will be forced to add customer details before proceeding to the Cart screen. If a customer is added in that session the prompt will not be displayed again until the transaction is complete. Note: If the customer is already added to a transaction or session, then the prompt will not be displayed at any above trigger points. (3) Link Sales Associate prompt: This preference will be configured as "Never" by default, which means that the prompt will not be shown by default. Below are some of the triggers that can initiate the linking of Sales Associate to a transaction: Cart: When associate navigates to cart screen using any option on the handheld device, the Sales Associate prompt will be displayed, user can choose to skip based on the "allowSkipLinkAssoc" flag. If the skip is not allowed, then the associate will be forced to add Sales Associate details before proceeding to the Cart screen. If a Sales associate is already linked in that session then, the prompt will not be displayed again until the transaction is complete. New Transaction: When a new transaction is created by adding the first item to cart, the Sales Associate prompt will be displayed, user can choose to skip based on the "allowSkipLinkAssoc" flag. If the skip is not allowed, associate will be forced to add Sales Associate details before proceeding to cart screen. If the skip is performed or a Sales Associate is added for this transaction, then the prompt will not be displayed again until a transaction is burnt in that session. By Default Sales associate screen will display all associates within the stores. If user is searching for sales associates then based on the flag "Search Sales Associates Within Organization" in POS store Common Configurations and this flag is TRUE then search will result in displaying sales associates across all stores. Else if this flag is FALSE, then will results in displaying sales associates within logged in store. Note: If the Sales associate is already added to a transaction or session, then the prompt will not be displayed at any above trigger points. (4) Show Item Language Selector: This preference is turned to "False" by default which means that the Item Language selector is not displayed at the Home Screen Menu. When the preference is set to "True" the Item Language Selector is displayed at the Home Screen Menu. The Item Language Selector includes the list of languages which consists of the Primary Language (Locale Id) of the user and also the languages from the Available User Locale. (5) Location Search Radius Config: It is possible to define various radii values that appear in the Store Façade Store Locator UI, for example: 10, 100, 1000. Without this configuration, the store associates cannot search pickup locations. To configure these values, the following must be provided: Radius Value: The numerical distance. For example: “10” Radius Display Name: The display name for the radius value. For example: “10” can be used to represent numeric value 10, additionally, a display name "ALL" can be used to represent the entire earth say about radius value of 13000. Display Sequence: The order in which the radii should appear in the drop-down. For example: “1”. The first value in the sequence is used as default value for the radius. (6) Customer Contact Config: In order to maintain data integrity when creating or updating customer information, this configuration can be used to determine what contact information is required and which is optional when creating/editing a customer in Point of Sale. Based on the configurations set, UI validation will occur, and the user will not be able to proceed through the flow until all required information is filled out by the user. Customer Contact ConfigID: This allows the retailer to create, and differentiate between, different configurations for different customer types. Customer Contact Config Label: This is the text displayed on the UI Customer Type: This can be set to either Customer or Guest. This allows the retailer to require different information based on if the customer is registered/known, or if they wish to checkout as a Guest. Contact Config: This is a drop down with values to determine which field or fields are mandatory, and which are optional. Possible options include: Email required, Phone required, Email or Phone is required, Both email AND phone are required, Neither email or phone are required. Customer Contact Config Description: This allows the retailer to set a description for the configuration they have set up. Ex: Specifies Email and Phone are both mandatory for customer creation. Note: Customer Contact Configuration will only be applied when Customer Config > CustomerDGenerationStrategy is set to Auto or Null, meaning the customerID is a serialized autonumber generated by the system. If the generationStrategy is set to use "email" or "phone number" which are alternate settings, that required data for autogeneration (phone or email) would still be required regardless of customer contact config setting. (7) Network availability View: In order to display item availability indictor on both Item Search results list and Catalog screens, retailers must set both the Default Network Avail View and Default Location Avail View. POS requires the view name which should match the ViewDefinitionId set in ATC configs. Returns Configurations Via the following the retailer can configure various Return Flow options. See also Return and Exchanges Configuration guides for information regarding Order Management returns/exchanges settings. Most of these settings are found in POS General Configurations entity, implying that they would typically be defined the same for many or all stores in the organization. POS Returns Preference Configurations Purpose BlindReturn Determines whether the user can select items from an order being returned, or whether the items must be entered without reference to the original order for Loss Prevention reasons. ReturnReasonCodes/ReturnDispositionCodes Configure POS to require either Reason Codes, Disposition Codes, or both for each item which is returned. CustIdCaptureReturns Configure POS to prompt for customer proof of identification when returning items CustInfoCaptureReturns Configure POS to collect customer name/address information when returning items Each of the above can be set as mandatory or optional ("allow skip" switches exist for both). enableAutoSearchCustomerOrder Determines if the system has will auto-search for the past orders of the active customer to find the original sale order to match with the return item, whether or not a receipt is provided. Default False. customerOrderSearchAgeLimit The value in number of days drives how far system should search for customer orders if the order ID is not presented to create return. 150 days is the default value. Order Configuration Purpose DaysForEligibleReturn Integer. If an item was fulfilled greater than the configured days, it is not eligible to be returned without a manager permission. Returns Default Reason, Disposition and Error consolidation codes: Retailers who choose to collect reason and disposition codes, can choose to set a default selection on the UI. Additionally, they can choose to set a default error consolidation selection. These can all be set under Application Configuration > Manage POS Configuration > POS Configurations > POS General Configuration > Common Config. Once set, the drop down on the UI will automatically default to the set reason/disposition code, and error consolidation selection. Users can manually change the selection as needed during the return. Returns Static Table Picklist Configurations Some of the option settings above are supported by drop-down picklists, which are located as described below. Order Configuration Purpose Reason Return Reason Codes for the Reason Code picklist. The POS Return Reason Codes will be those which are created with ReasonTypeId=Return. For example, "Wrong color", "Wrong size", "Customer doesn't like". Pos Configurations Purpose POS Return Disposition Disposition codes for the Disposition Code picklist. This is a shadow table of Inventory/Disposition but will contain a subset of that table. i.e, codes may be created in Inventory but not shadowed in Posservice, but not vice versa. For example, "Damaged", "Returned to Inventory" OrderConfig Purpose Identity DocType List of identification types for the Customer Identification picklist. For example, "Driver's license", "Passport". POS - Receipt Parameters A different set of Receipt Parameters can be configured for the receipt for each transaction category (SALE/RETURN, POSTVOID, etc).  Unique initial param base seed data is provided for each of 18 transaction types. Exchange Tender Transaction Fiscal Invoice Franking Notice Gift Card Balance Check Gift Card Balance Gift Receipt No Sale Order Quote Post Void of Sale transaction Post Void Till Loan Post Void Till PayIn Post Void Till Payout Post Void Till Pickup Sale Return Suspend Transaction Till Audit Till Loan Till PayIn Till Payout Till Pickup For each of the above, a unique set of the following receipt parameters can be defined in the base product. Receipt>receiptParams Purpose Location Not currently used. Reserved for future use in base ReceiptHeader Header info for receipt, ex. "Welcome Shopper!" ReceiptFooter Footer info for receipt, ex. "All Sales are Final" ReceiptLogo URL for the receipt logo, ex. http://res.cloudinary.com/com-manh-cp/image/upload/v1493845374/ReceiptLogo_1.png Specifications for Receipt Logo Graphic - Monochromatic without transparency .png file Width evenly divisible by 8 and roughly the size could be 400 X 200 ( 96 px / inch) Please note that these are standard guidelines.  Black and white graphics of other specifications may work as well, depending on the printer model. From the receipt component, Jasper will access the LOGO Image URL. If your image server restricts java clients from accessing Image URLs, then the log will not be printed on the receipt. We recommend that your image server allows user agents like Java/X.XX to access the receipt logo/image. ReceiptCategory Determines Category of receipt like Sale Transaction, Post Void etc ReceiptLanguage Locale code which determines language of the receipt - ex. "en" for US-English ReceiptEmailSubjectLine Contains what subject line will be used for emailing a receipt, ex. "Here's your receipt for recent purchase!" ReceiptIncEmvPrimary Flag to determine whether EMV header as a part of receipt - only relevant to Sale Return transactions tendered by credit/debit with EMV capability. ReceiptIncEmvSecondary Flag to determine whether EMV details as a part of receipt - only relevant to Sale Return transactions tendered by credit/debit with EMV capability. POS RFID Configurations RFID Related Grant ui::posservice::accessRFID This is a UI action to check if a user has permission to use the RFID toggle on the CART screen. Store RFID Parameters See the general RFID Parameters guide here. To enable RFID for POS application, set value for Flow name POS Cart to True The default Read Range is "Short" (appropriate for fixed register/flatbed context). Change if needed. This configuration is available in the Store RFID Parameters UI and is disabled by default. Configuration Name: RFID enabled flows. Flow Name: POS Cart. The default value is set as false. The default Read Range is "Short". Change the read range if needed. See RFID entries in Device Registration and Management Configuration guide as well. Publishing Configuration Changes and Syncing POS Devices Make change(s) to the appropriate entities/attributes via Omni Enterprise UI, or via Postman script. Log off the application on the device. Log on into the application. Change will be effective with the new login. With Active Omni model, the configuration changes are essentially in real-time. Configuration Services, UI's and Entities The configuration services mentioned in this document, are with configuration UI's that are available, and are listed in the table below, along with information to navigate to the API documentation. Service Config-UI Name Component Group Service Endpoint Seed Data Present? Seed data profile POS General Config POS General Configurations Posservice POS General Config posservice/api/posservice/posGeneralConfig Yes Base POS Store Config POS Store Configurations Posservice POS Store Config posservice/api/posservice/posStoreConfig Yes Base POS Return Disposition Posservice POS Return Disposition posservice/api/posservice/posReturnDisposition Yes Base Reason Order Reasons Order Reason order/api/order/reason Yes Base Identity Doc Type Order Identity Doc Type order/api/order/identityDocType Yes Base Disposition Inventory Disposition Codes Inventory Disposition inventory/api/inventory/disposition Yes Base Resources Access Resources Organization Resources organization/api/organization/resources Yes System Role Roles Organization Role organization/api/organization/role Yes System Grant Grants Organization Grant organization/api/organization/grant Yes System User Users Organization User organization/api/organization/user Yes System User Role User Role Organization User Role organization/api/organization/userRole List of Profile Purposes: emp::employee emp::jobclass