# POS Discounts

**Permalink:** posdiscounts
**Content Length:** 17,604 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:35:29.633630

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Point of Sale&rsaquo;&rsaquo;POS Guides ››POS Discounts &nbsp; POS Manual DiscountsOverviewSequence RulesConfigurationsOrderLine level discount control (Item Discounts)1. Manage Order Configurations&gt;Threshold Discount Configuration2. Item master configurationsSelling AttributesDeprecated/Unused Fields in Item&gt;Selling Attribute3. POS General config&gt;&gt;Common config&gt;&gt;Enable discount amount at unit levelEnable Discount Amount at Unit Level "False"Enable Discount Amount at Unit Level "True"Header level discount control (Transaction Discounts)1. Manage Order Configurations&gt;Threshold Discount ConfigurationManage Selling Configuration&gt; Selling&gt; Charge Type OverrideDiscount Related Permissions and GrantsStandard permissionsThreshold and Role based Override permissionsPOS Configurations&gt;Threshold ConfigurationVoiding manually added discounts POS Manual Discounts Overview Manhattan Active® Omni POS supports applying discount at the time of creating the transaction. This is outside of promotions/coupons/offer numbers or price overrides. Discounts can be applied: as a percentage of order total&nbsp; as a percentage of item unit price as a specific amount on the order total as a specific amount on item unit price &nbsp; Sequence Rules &nbsp; POS applies Discount on Item Price. &nbsp;Does not include other charges like Shipping, VAS.&nbsp;&nbsp; This is applicable to line level and header level both. When multiple discounts are applied at order and/or line level, a total discount charge amount is calculated and applied using the following sequence rules. &nbsp;&nbsp; 1. Mixing Item (orderLine level) discounts&nbsp;and Transaction (header level) discounts - regardless of the order of application, item level discounts are applied first, then transaction level discounts. Example 1 - Order contains 100.00 discountable item.&nbsp; User applies 10% off Transaction Discount followed by $5.00 off Item Discount. Result: Item price is 85.50.&nbsp; (100-5.00 = 95.00, then 95.00-9.50 (10%)= 85.50) &nbsp; 2. Regardless of the order of application or the type of discount (Transaction vs Item), percentage discounts of the same type are applied before amount discounts of the same type. Example 1 - Order contains 100.00 discountable item.&nbsp; User applies $5.00 off Item Discount followed by 10% off Item Discount. Result: Item price is 85.00.&nbsp; (100-10.00 (10%)-5.00) Example 2 -&nbsp;Order contains 100.00 discountable item.&nbsp; User applies $5.00 off Transaction Discount followed by 10% off Transaction Discount Result: Item price is 85.00.&nbsp; (100-10.00 (10%)-5.00) 3. Regardless of the order of application, multiple percentage discounts of the same type (two Item discounts, or two Transaction discounts, all by %) are applied additively on the original price. Example 1 - Order contains 100.00 discountable item.&nbsp; User applies 5% off Item Discount followed by 10% off Item Discount. Result: Item price is 85.00.&nbsp; (100-15.00 (15%)) Example 2 -&nbsp;Order contains 100.00 discountable item.&nbsp; User applies 5% off Transaction&nbsp;Discount followed by 10% off Transaction Discount Result: Item price is 85.00.&nbsp; (100-15.00 (15%)) &nbsp; Note: These sequence rules are&nbsp;different from those used in Classic POS in which discounts are calculated strictly in the order they are applied. &nbsp; Configurations &nbsp; OrderLine level discount control (Item Discounts) &nbsp; 1. Manage Order Configurations&gt;Threshold Discount Configuration Maximum Number of Line&nbsp; Discounts This is the max number of times a line can be discounted by Item Discount. &nbsp; 2. Item master configurations Selling Attributes Max Discount Percentage Set a percentage value under "Max Discount Percentage" on Item&gt;&gt;Selling Attributes to restrict manual Item discount beyond certain percentage value. &nbsp; This serves as the discount ceiling regardless of how the discount was applied (percent or dollar off) - in other words, 3.00 off a 10.00 item is interpreted as a 30% discount and the Maximum Discount Percentage enforced accordingly. Discountable Enforced based on Charge Type Override setup. &nbsp; Deprecated/Unused Fields in Item&gt;Selling Attribute &nbsp; Note: Deprecated settings - the following Item Master fields are not currently used in the base solution -&nbsp;Max Discount and&nbsp;Max Discount Amount &nbsp; 3. POS General config&gt;&gt;Common config&gt;&gt;Enable discount amount at unit level This setting determines how item discounts are applied on multi-quantity items. Enable Discount Amount at Unit Level "False" Example with "False"- Purchase 10.00 item.&nbsp; Change quantity to 3 for total of 30.00.&nbsp; Apply a 5.00 ITEM DISCOUNT Result:&nbsp;The three items are purchased for 25.00 (which is 5.00 total discount).&nbsp; The discount is spread over all occurrences. Enable Discount Amount at Unit Level "True" Example&nbsp;with "True" - Purchase 10.00 item.&nbsp; Change quantity to 3 for total of 30.00.&nbsp; Apply a 5.00 ITEM DISCOUNT Result:&nbsp;The three items are purchased for 15.00 (which is 5.00x3= 15.00 total discount).&nbsp; 5.00 off is applied to all&nbsp;unit occurrences. &nbsp; Header level discount control (Transaction Discounts) &nbsp; 1. Manage Order Configurations&gt;Threshold Discount Configuration Maximum Discount Percentage This is the max discount percentage allowed via one or more Tran discounts.&nbsp; This is applied on order sub total. &nbsp;This relates to Transaction Discount only. Maximum Number of Header Discounts This is the max number of times an order can be discounted by Transaction Discount. &nbsp; Manage Selling Configuration&gt; Selling&gt; Charge Type Override &nbsp; To enforce item non-discountable flag,&nbsp; set up Charge type override with Charge Type ID=Discount &nbsp;and&nbsp;Skip Non Discountable Items=True to exclude items which are configured as Discountable False for both Header and Orderline discounts. If this charge type override with this Skip Non Discountable property is not established, the item level Discountable T/F&nbsp;flag is not enforced and is always treated as T.&nbsp; &nbsp; Discount Related Permissions and Grants Standard permissions The following grants are required to perform manual discounts &nbsp; Function Override Resource ID Description Manager Override overrideaccess::posservice::applyDiscount This is a Resource Id for Check and forward service to apply either item or transaction discount.&nbsp; NOTE THE MIXED CASE on this resourceID.&nbsp; A user who does not have this grant may be able to perform the discount function with a key from a user with the grant. Apply Item Discount Function ui::pos::cart::itemdiscount::admin This is a UI action&nbsp; to perform item discount.&nbsp; Without this grant the function is not available to that user. Apply Transaction Discount Function ui::pos::cart::transdiscount::admin This is a UI action&nbsp; to perform transaction discount.&nbsp; Without this grant the function is not available to that user. &nbsp; Threshold and Role based Override permissions POS Configurations&gt;Threshold Configuration Via these settings, retailers may choose to create overridable threshold limits for item or transaction discounts.&nbsp; These work in conjunction with the 'hard' limits described earlier for Orderline (Item) Discount Control and Header (Transaction) Discount Control. For example, via Threshold a Store Associate may be allowed to assign item discounts up to 25% and a Store Manager up to 50%.&nbsp; A given item A may have Max Discount percentage in the Item Master of 35% If the Associate assigns a discount of 20% there is no manager key required.&nbsp;&nbsp; If an Associate assigns a discount of 30%, a Manager may provide a key to approve. If an Associate assigns a discount of 40%, a Manager may provide a key but the discount will still be prevented if this is Item A since its Max Discount is 35%, with no override allowed beyond this.&nbsp; Note the following:&nbsp; 1. If POS threshold configuration is enabled, but user's role is not defined, then it will assume the user's role has 0 threshold. 2. If POS threshold Configuration is not defined or is disabled, then system will treat the discount threshold to be 100% Example of adding an item discount with threshold configured, and the amount entered is more than the threshold limit. Threshold for itemDiscount for manager role = 30% Add item to cart ($188) Eligible discount for the user is 30% ($56.40) Add item discount of 25%. ($47) Add another item discount of 10% Error is displayed that 'The entered value exceeds the maximum amount for this item. 6% is allowed for the role" The reason '6' is displayed is that the remaining eligible amount for this role was $9.40, which is 6.7% of the subtotal of $141. This percentage is rounded down and that is what is shown to the user when they attempt to apply a larger number. Voiding manually added discounts When the business flag in POS&nbsp;general config &gt; common config "Allow voiding of discounts at line or transaction level"&nbsp; is enabled,&nbsp;it provides the&nbsp;user the capability&nbsp;to remove the manually added discount from&nbsp;item or transaction level.&nbsp; If the transaction discount is removed, then all prorated discount charge amounts on all items will be removed.&nbsp; After removal of discounts, cart is re-evaluated for promotional deals.&nbsp; Since manual discounts make items ineligible for deals, removing them can restore that eligibility. If any promotion is qualified after voiding discounts, then the deal will be automatically added to all the qualified/target&nbsp;items.