# Best Practices for Offline Validation

**Permalink:** posoffline-validation
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Store/Process & Configuration Guides/Point of Sale/POS Guides/POS Offline/Best Practices for Offline Validation
**Content Length:** 28,370 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:02:38.213310

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Store››Process & Configuration Guides››Point of Sale››POS Guides››POS Offline ››Best Practices for Offline Validation Best Practices for Offline Validation OverviewPre-Validation SetupBest practices for simulating network loss and recoveryBest Practices for Validating Online/Offline TransitionsTransition from Online to OfflineLaunching POS application in offlineOffline Mode OperationTransition from Offline to OnlineUse Case-Specific Scenarios TestingUse Case 1: Normal Day (Morning Online, Mid-day Offline, Back Online Before Store Closing)Use Case 2: No internet in the morning at the start of the day. Internet resolved in afternoonUse Case 3: No Internet All Day-No store open/no store closed (Auto store Close)Use Case 4: No Internet for many DaysTroubleshootingFrequently Asked Questions(FAQ) Overview This guide provides a streamlined approach to validate offline functionality in POS systems, ensuring critical operations continue during network outages. Pre-Validation Setup Enable offline mode by selecting Register Type and configuring MAO Cloud settings (user roles, PIN setup, master data caching, offline templates, order ID, barcode rules, receipt configurations, and optional custom configurations) as per the POS Offline Configuration guide. Ensure each register completes the initial setup: log into Manhattan Active® Omni POS Online mode, remain in Cart Next Gen for a few minutes to allow offline data import, and confirm the "Switch to Offline" option appears in the hamburger menu. This may take a few minutes based on data volume. Do not uninstall or reinstall the POS App while the store is open or while the WAN is down. These actions can interfere with proper transaction sequencing and synchronization, potentially resulting in the loss of transaction data. This setup is necessary to prevent validation disruptions and ensures the application is ready for offline mode testing. Best practices for simulating network loss and recovery To ensure seamless offline operations, it is crucial to connect all essential peripherals—such as the printer, cash drawer, payment terminal, and POS register—through a reliable network setup.To accurately simulate network outages, follow these best practices for simulating network loss and recovery for performing this offline validation. To simulate network loss, unplug the network cable from the WAN or Internet port into the router. This will disconnect the router from the broader network, causing the POS system to enter offline mode. To restore network connectivity, simply reconnect the network cable to the WAN or Internet port. After reconnecting or disconnecting the network, the system may take some time to recognize the network failure, depending on the infrastructure setup. Best Practices for Validating Online/Offline Transitions To ensure a smooth offline validation process, start by verifying the register's offline configurations and confirming the visibility of the "Switch to Offline" option in the application's hamburger menu. If the option is not visible, refer to the Troubleshooting Section to identify the potential reasons to resolve the issue. Transition from Online to Offline Login and Start Online:mThe user is logged into the online application and performs operations in the online mode of the application. Simulate Network Loss: To simulate a network loss. Refer to this section simulating network loss and recovery. Network Error Prompt: When the user performs any network-dependent actions. Ex: cart operation, navigating to catalog. If the system detects loss of network connectivity, the application will display a Network Error popup. This popup provides the user with an option to Switch to Offline mode and Close Option. Validate that selecting "Close" keeps the application in online mode in its current state. Switching to Offline Mode: When the user selects the 'Switch to Offline' option, the application transitions into Offline Mode. The user will be redirected to the offline interface, and the banner will indicate Offline mode. Ensure the application reflects "disconnected" as the network status in the banner. The cart will be emptied, and any active orders will be abandoned, meaning the order will no longer be available and must be recreated in offline mode Manual Transition to Offline Mode: Alternatively, the user can manually switch to offline mode with/without network problems. To do this, they can select the Switch to Offline option from the hamburger menu of the application. If the user encounters any issues during the transition from online to offline mode, including issues with the Network Error popup, manual switch to offline mode, or the application not properly indicating offline status, refer to the Troubleshooting Section to identify potential causes to resolve the issue. Launching POS application in offline Simulate Network Loss : To simulate a network loss. Refer to this section simulating network loss and recovery. Launching the POS Application in Offline Mode Open the store application without network connectivity. Page opens which cannot load to the application login page. Click on ‘done’ in IOS or' cancel' or 'x' in Windows and Android. The user will be directed to a black screen with the option to "Launch Offline Point of Sale". This will be shown only if the offline configurations are set up correctly. This screen allows users to access the offline mode directly. Redirect to Login Page Click on the "Launch Offline Point of Sale" option. The user will be redirected to the login page, where they need to provide their username and PIN to access the offline mode. User Authentication in Offline Mode Enter the required credentials (username and PIN). Upon successful login, the user will be directed to the offline mode of the POS application, where they can perform standard offline operations such as adding items, processing transactions, etc. Business Day Selection Prompt: If the store is closed and the system date has changed, when the user launches the POS application in offline mode the next day, they will be prompted to select the appropriate business day before initiating any transactions. This prompt will appear if the user has not logged into the Cart NextGen application in online mode for that specific day. Offline Mode Operation Validate that transactions can be processed correctly in offline mode including sales and non-validated return transactions with receipt print. Test the capability to void items or entire transactions as needed. For more details on the supported offline functionalities, refer to the section Supported Functions in Offline under POS Offline process guide. While operating in offline mode, if the user closes the application and then logs back in, they should use their username and password if connectivity is restored. If there is still no connectivity, they should log in using their username and PIN. Transition from Offline to Online Simulate Network Connectivity: To simulate network connectivity, Refer to this section simulating network loss and recovery. Network Status Change: Ensure the application reflects "Connected" as the network status in the banner. The application will check the stability of the network and then shows it as connected even though the network is restored. Before enabling the "Switch to Online" option, the application performs a series of checks at different time intervals to ensure the stability of the network connection. In the background, the system continuously monitors the connection by conducting multiple checks, including bandwidth level verification and availability checks. Only after confirming a stable connection does the application suggest that the user switch to online mode. Syncing Offline Transactions: When the store regains internet connectivity, all registers that operate in offline mode will automatically submit their transactions to MAO Cloud. To sync offline transactions when network connectivity is restored, the POS register must not be in sleep mode, the store application must be active and in the foreground, and the POS must be on the CartNextGen screen. Offline transactions that have been successfully submitted to MAO Cloud will be cleared from the register’s local data storage. For credit card payments, offline transactions fully paid by credit card will be immediately processed as MAO orders, while for cash payments, if the till for the register is not open in online mode, the transaction will remain staged with a "Till Not Found" status. The system will include a scheduler that automatically picks up failed transactions from the staging table from the past two days every two hours, reprocess to MAO order if the Till is opened online. Availability of "Switch to Online": Once all offline transactions have been synced, the "Switch to Online" option should appear on the right side of the banner. If the user is still processing a transaction, the option to switch to online will not be available until the transaction is completed and synced. Switching to Online Mode: Click on the "Switch to Online" option. Confirm that the application smoothly transitions back to online mode. If the user initially logged into offline mode by directly launching the POS application and entering their username and PIN, upon switching to online, the system will prompt the user to re-login and redirect them to the login page to enter their username and password. Post-transition Operations After successfully transitioning to online mode, verify that the system allows normal operations, including new transactions and access to online features. Validate that all offline transactions are submitted to MAO Cloud and saved as MAO orders. If the application was launched directly in offline mode, ensure that the store and tills are opened, allowing the user to proceed with online transactions. Use Case-Specific Scenarios Testing Use Case 1: Normal Day (Morning Online, Mid-day Offline, Back Online Before Store Closing) If the store was open for the day and the user has logged into each of the registers and navigated to cartNextGen and actively uses the register to perform any network-dependent actions. Ex: cart operation, navigating to catalog. In the event  of a network issue, the application attempts to perform the requested action and will fail. The application will display an error message to the user indicating that there is a network error and the user will be prompted to either switch to Offline Mode or Close. This popup provides the user with an option to Switch to Offline mode and Close Option. Validate that selecting "Close" keeps the application in online mode in its current state. The user selects “switch to offline“ mode and the current online transaction will be voided, and the user will be taken to an empty cart in Offline Mode. Users can start a new transaction in Offline mode. If the user were to close the store application and the store is still offline, the user must use their username and PIN to log in. While performing transactions offline, the application will continuously check for network connectivity. Once the network is restored and stable, the user will see the network status as "Connected." After completing the order and syncing, the user will be able to switch to online mode and continue performing transactions online, then close the store. Use Case 2: No internet in the morning at the start of the day. Internet resolved in afternoon In this scenario, the user launches the application on offline, login to the store application on offline using their username and PIN at the start of the day. In order to process transactions offline on an individual register, the user will get the option to set the business date. Once this is done, that register can be used to process offline transactions. If a store needs to process transactions on other registers while offline, the same must be done on the other registers. In this scenario, when internet connectivity is restored in the afternoon, when the user switches to online, they will be redirected to the login page, and they are asked to log in using their username and password. Once they login online, ensure that they open the store and till for that particular day. Use Case 3: No Internet All Day-No store open/no store closed (Auto store Close) Similar to the above Use Case 2, store users login using their username and PIN at the start of the day. Users will get the option to select the business date and then proceed with the transaction on offline With no Internet for the whole day, the store would need to ring transactions in offline mode. The auto store close still runs in MAO Cloud as normal. The following day (day 2) when the users come to the store (assuming here that there is the Internet), the user will open the store for the current business day (day 2) in online mode, along with opening the tills in online mode and continuing the operation in Online mode. Use Case 4: No Internet for many Days The same applies to this use case as described in Use Case 3 above. The only difference is that for each day the store is offline when users launch the store app offline. Every day before starting the operation offline, they will get the option to choose the business date on each register the users wish to use. All transactions that the user has processed over the day(s) where no Internet is available, the orders are stored locally in the store application’s local data store. The auto store close still runs in MAO Cloud as normal. On the day when the internet is restored, whether in the middle of the day or when launching the store app at the beginning of the day, the user will switch back to online mode, open the store, and continue transactions online. Troubleshooting Data Export Issues : To address issues related to data export from the cloud to a local device, please refer to Troubleshooting section under POS offline Configuration guide. Offline Readiness and Transaction Sync Issues: Troubleshooting "Switch to Offline" and "Switch to Online" Options: If the device is not offline-ready, the "Switch to Offline" option will be disabled. Similarly, if the "Switch to Online" option is not visible due to pending transactions, use the following resources, such as the Register Status details in the POS Application and the MUP Screen, to identify the cause of the issue. For instructions on how to access the Register Status in the application and the MUP Screen, as well as to understand the key information available about the register, refer to this section under POS Offline process guide. Frequently Asked Questions(FAQ) How long does it take for the application to transition from online to offline mode? The transition to offline mode typically occurs within a few seconds when the network fails. However, the exact duration depends on how quickly the application detects the network failure. What should I do if the "Switch to Offline" option is not visible? Ensure that offline configurations are properly set. If the option is still not visible, check the register information from the metric icon in the upper-right corner of the application or review the     MUP screen to know the reason. What happens to my cart when I switch to offline mode? When transitioning to offline mode, the cart will be emptied, and any active orders will be abandoned. These orders will need to be recreated in offline mode.