# POS Order Quotes

**Permalink:** posorderquotes
**Content Length:** 17,412 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:35:31.158295

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Point of Sale&rsaquo;&rsaquo;POS Guides ››POS Order Quotes Order Quotes Feature Summary&nbsp;EnablementConfigurationsGrantsCreating a QuoteSearching for Existing&nbsp;Quote (Classic POS)Searching for a QuoteRetrieving a QuoteConvert Quote to Customer OrderConvert Quote to Customer Order FALSEConvert Quote to Customer Order TRUEReceipts: Feature Summary Retailers can now provide customers with an order quote to guarantee the pricing of an item, or items, for a configurable amount of time. A Quote is a cart with one or more priced/taxed items which is saved prior to tender.&nbsp; This is similar to a Suspended Order except the quote persists over multiple days, until it expires.&nbsp; The retailer can configure the duration of a quote (ex. 30 days).&nbsp; Prior to expiration, the Quote may be retrieved one or more times, and the Quote item/price data incorporated into a new Order which can be completed, or saved as a new Quote. This has the effect of &#39;guaranteeing&#39; item prices for the Quote duration for a customer, who may come back later to complete the quote - for this reason, Quotes are also sometimes known as Price Holds. When the feature is enabled via configuration and the user role is assigned the appropriate grant, users will see an additional option in addition to Checkout within the CART to Create a Quote instead.&nbsp; An active customer is required for this feature.&nbsp; If one is not already activated, the user will be prompted to search for one or create a new one.&nbsp; Additionally, if a return item or gift card are in the CART, the quote option will be disabled. Upon saving the quote, the user can choose to email or print a receipt for the quote.&nbsp; The details will be visible in both the Ejournal and in the Quote order details on the UI.&nbsp; &nbsp;Once created, the quote will remain valid for the configured amount of time.&nbsp; To Retrieve and work with the saved Quote, users can use global search of Orders (Classic POS), navigate&nbsp;to the customer&#39;s purchase history screen (Classic POS) or search on the transaction tab.&nbsp; Retrieving the quote will create a new cart via the same or different orderID depending on configuration, and pull all relevant information into the cart including, but not limited to, items, pricing, promotions, applied associates, applied customer. &nbsp;Enablement Configurations There are multiple configurations that control turning on and off order quotes. Order Types Different quote order types associated with Doc type &quot;QuoteOrder&quot; can be created, and the same can be used for Quote order creation. Refer Order Type Configuration for more details. Order Configuration The seeded base default QuoteConfig order type can be updated if there are any changes required to the base recommendation on order orchestration rules. Order Parameters Define the maximum number of quote expiration days. The maximum allowed number of days is 30. Refer to&nbsp;Configuring Quote Expiration Days&nbsp;for more details. Convert Quote to Customer Order.&nbsp; See Convert Quote to Customer Order. POS General Config Common Config &gt; Quote Order Type = Quote order Refer to Quote Orders&nbsp;for more details on order configurations for quotes. Grants ResourceID Description ui::posservice::orderquote (Classic POS) This grant controls the visibility of the Quote button in the CART ui::posservice::orderquote::view (Classic POS) This grant controls the user&#39;s ability to navigate into the order detail view for a quote order ui::posservice::orderquote::retrieve (Classic POS)This grant controls the users ability to retrieve a quote order and pull it into the CART to sell the items ui::pos::cart::saveasquote::admin This grant controls the visibility of the Quote button in the CART ui::pos::cart::retrievequote::admin This grant controls the users ability to retrieve a quote order and pull it into the CART to sell the items &nbsp; Creating a Quote Quotes can be created for both in-store purchases and Omni orders. To create a quote: Add item(s) to the cart Users can modify items as needed Press Quote button If a customer has already been activated, the quote will be applied to that customer. However, if no customer is activated at the time of quote creation, the user will be prompted to search for an existing customer or to create a new one. Quotes cannot be created without an active customer. Note: If the original order has a return line, gift card line, or non-merch line, the quote button will be disabled. User will need to remove the lines before the quote button is enabled. Note: Items within a quote will not be allocated. Quote order does not support generating a bounceback coupon promotion. Searching for Existing&nbsp;Quote (Classic POS) Quotes can be searched two ways within POS: Users can search for a quote in the global search by searching for the order number The search results list will show the quote order number, as well as the expiration date Users can search for a quote by navigating to the customer&#39;s purchase history The quote will show all pertinent header and item information Both options above will allow the user to navigate to the quote order details, as well as allow them to retrieve the quote Searching for a Quote Users can search for a quote by navigating to the transaction tab and filtering by date or customer Ordersd that are quotes will be indicated next to the order number Once tapped, the order details will be visible and the user can choose to retrieve the quote. Retrieving a Quote Quotes can be retrieved several ways: Scan quote barcode in the Cart Global order search results (Classic POS) quick swipe menu via order quote details Customer purchase history (Classic POS) retrieve icon in the order heading via order quote details Transaction tab via order details by tapping order Note: If a quote has reached its&nbsp;expiration date, user will receive a message stating the quote is no longer retrievable. Once the quote is retrieved, all items, as well as all modifications made to the original order, will be initially pulled into the Cart with a new or using the existing&nbsp;order number. Pricing will not be changed from the original order, unless the user modifies the orderlines by adding, deleting, or otherwise changing the item(s). Promotions applied during quote creation&nbsp;will be conserved based on the original promo date.&nbsp; If items are deleted or manually modified promotions will be re-evaluated but original quote items will be evaluated with the original purchase date assumed. I.E., a one day only deal&nbsp;applied on the day the quote was created, will be reapplied (as long as the deal is not deleted from the promotions database) if the quote is re-submitted after retrieval due to added/modified items&nbsp;. The user will be able to checkout/tender the order, or make modifications. &nbsp; Convert Quote to Customer Order This logic governs quote record data handling.&nbsp; This configuration&nbsp;gives the option&nbsp;to assign same/different Order ID to Quote records when they are retrieved. After creation, quote records can be configured to behave two different ways when retrieved into the cart later, depending on the flag Order Parameters - Convert Quote to Customer Order (T/F).&nbsp; &nbsp; Convert Quote to Customer Order FALSE When a quote transaction is retrieved into the cart, it serves as a template to associate the cart to a new set of Order records, with new&nbsp;Order ID,&nbsp; pre-populated from the data in the retrieved quote. The new cart Order can in turn be processed/tendered as a confirmed Customer Order, or, saved as a new Quote under the new OrderID.&nbsp;&nbsp; If it is saved as a quote, there are now two quotes - the original quote that was created and a new quote record, with the same or modified data The quote record is retained as well via its original Order ID and can be retrieved multiple times, serving as a template for multiple subsequent carts. &nbsp; Convert Quote to Customer Order TRUE When a quote transaction is retrieved into the cart, a new Order ID is NOT automatically assigned but&nbsp;rather the data in the cart is still associated to&nbsp;the Order ID of the original quote. The cart is&nbsp;pre-populated as before from the data in the retrieved quote but under the same Order ID The cart Order can be processed/tendered as a confirmed Customer Order, or, again saved as a Quote under the original&nbsp;OrderID If it is saved as a quote, there is still only ONE QUOTE under that Order ID. In effect, the original quote data under the original number may be saved with revised data. If the cart Order is confirmed as a Customer Order,&nbsp; the original quote record is NOT retained. This order with this Order ID has now been converted to a customer order, not retained as a quote &quot;template&quot;. Also see the Order Management Order Processing&nbsp;&quot;Quote Orders&quot; process guide for QUOTE ORDERS for additional detail on this configuration. &nbsp; &nbsp; Receipts: A new report has been introduced:&nbsp; OrderQuote.jrxml&nbsp;which will be similar to&nbsp;SaleReturn.jrxml&nbsp;but will have the following differences. New Subheader under Purchases/Orders which will read &ldquo;Order Quote&rdquo; The payment section will be replaced with&nbsp;&ldquo;Quote Will Expire On: DD/MM/YYY (based on locale)&rdquo; Order Quote receipt will not have any details related to Fiscalization since this there is no payment involved. Any details related to Returns or Gift Card will not be there as per assumptions. All other details such as promotions, tax breakup, discounts, totals, overrides, charges, etc will remain as is as per how it is in the current SaleReturn template. Add label &ldquo;Total Items In Quote&rdquo; with total items in order under the TOTALS section A new SubReport has been introduce: OrderQuote_OrderLine.jrxml, this will be similar to the subreport&nbsp;SaleReturn_OrderLine.jrxml&nbsp;but with the following changes Remove the label key and value &ldquo;Total Items Purchased&rdquo; Remove the label key and value &ldquo;Total Purchased Price&rdquo; Note: Receipt Category ID of &quot;Order Quote&quot; and description &quot;Order Quote&quot; needs to be created.