# POS Selling - Process

**Permalink:** posselling-process
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Store/Process & Configuration Guides/Point of Sale/POS Classic Guides/POS Order Selling/Selling/POS Selling - Process
**Content Length:** 121,516 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:02:44.659245

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Store››Process & Configuration Guides››Point of Sale››POS Classic Guides››POS Order Selling››Selling ››POS Selling - Process POS Cart - Process POS Cart - ProcessIn-Store PurchaseReceipt configurationAdding ItemsItem Sellable/Not Sellable at Stores configurationItem entered by direct entry (typing or scanning the SKU)item is added via Catalog or Global SearchVAS in POSItem Display (Compact Cart)Duplicate Items on CartOrder Hold - Zero PriceGift Card Sales in the CartActivate/Load Card(s) at EndActivate/Load Card(s) as Added to CartAdditional Transaction/Item Overrides/Modifiers Assign Transaction to a Customer: "Activate" a customerAdding Customer loyalty numberEmployee TransactionRFID items Tax OverrideTax ExemptManual DiscountsCalculate Tax in Cart on Demand optionSuspend and ResumeReason Code display Totals Container (Footer)Quick SwipeTenderingAmount EntryWhen do we close invoices for POS orders ?Ship to Address or Send SaleAdding ItemsShip to Address AvailabilityModify an In-Store PurchaseSearch for item in product catalogProcessing Send SaleAdditional details on New/Saved Address Control on Ship To CountriesPickup or Ship to StorePickup at Store AvailabilityShip to Store AvailabilityNearby Inventory SearchFlexible Search by Address AttributesLimited Search Using only zip/postal codeAdding ItemsModify an In-Store PurchaseSearch for item in product catalogGrouping Items on the CartFulfillment group IdAdditional Purchase at PickupAdd items to the existing store pickupPromotions on Pick Up at Store orders with additional purchase Order NotesDelivery Date DisplayPost VoidGeneralPost Voiding RefundsOrder Line CancelationExternal Web AccessStore Sales MetricsPrice CheckServicesResilient Cloud Capability - when Central Cloud Services are not available The In-Store Purchase functions allow customers to purchase items currently available within the retail space. Additionally, Save the Sale functions allow an associate to ship items to a customer's preferred address either from the current location or a different fulfillment location, or use the pickup-at-store function to sell an item to be picked up later.  An associate can also add additional items to an in-store pickup that was generated via an e-commerce website, call center or from a different selling location. Associates can make modifications to the items or the overall order within a cart at any time. A mix of any one of these fulfillment types can be handled within the cart to provide a better experience for both the associate and the customer. Refer to Order Management - Enterprise Inventory: Available to Commerce for more information on inventory availability Refer to Order Management - Order Selling: Order Pricing for more information on item pricing Refer to Order Management - Order Selling: Payment for more information on the various payment methods Refer to Order Management - Order Orchestration for more information on creating orders, updating orders and their statuses In-Store Purchase Within a Cart, the associate invokes an In-Store Purchase at any time by either selecting the Enter Barcode function or scanning/typing an Item ID. Customers can also invoke an In-Store Purchase by navigating through the Product Catalog to the Item Detail and selecting the Add To > Cart menu option. Receipt configuration Retailers can customize the customer receipt sent as an email using 2 approaches below. Email receipts can be customized using their 3rd party email services by configuring "Publish outbound for custom email" in Receipt configuration under POS store config business flag. This flag should be used when a retailer wants to customize the receipt by creating a custom receipt PDF. If an email is selected to be sent during a transaction, the outbound data of the receipt, i.e. order data, along with the customer details is published to the outbound queue "queue.EmailReceiptEventQueue". This outbound message can be used to be constructed and sent as a customized email to the customer. Email receipts can also be customized using "Publish PDF receipt for custom email" in Receipt configuration under POS store config business flag. This flag will work only when "Publish outbound for custom email" is set to FALSE. This flag should be used when a retailer wants to keep a base PDF but only customize the email body. If an email is selected to be sent during a transaction, the receipt data is sent as base 64 image with other receipt parameters published to the outbound queue "queue.EmailPdfReceiptEventQueue". This outbound message can be used to construct an email body and send the base pdf receipt. Custom receipts: It is important to note that each line in POS receipt can hold upto 40 characters. If your text on a single line crosses 40 character length then either wrap the text to next line or shorten the words. Note - Application can be configured to print either Store Copy or Customer Copy for receipts or even both.  However, this option is only available for return orders as of now. Receipts for regular sales order can either be emailed or printed in store but only one copy is made available. If application is configured "print receipt for return" as "Both" or "store copy". Store copy is always printed even when transaction only request for email receipts to customer. Adding Items Items can be added to a purchase in the following ways: 1.  Barcode scan via handheld scanner or camera - with typical Cart configuration. This is available at any time while the cart screen is shown. Unless the user is in a modify state, a scan of an item barcode at any point is interpreted as "look up this item and add to the cart".  There are some variations in this flow if bar code rules have been established to recognize the scanned number as something other than an item). 2. RFID read via attached RFID enabled Flatbed scanner. RFID will be initally turned off each time the cart is entered. It can be turned on / off in the title bar using a toggle switch. When RFID is OFF,  any item(s) placed on the RFID flatbed reader will NOT be added to the customer's cart. When RFID is ON,  item tags for which associated item SGTIN are correctly configured in the Item Master will be read by the reader, the item and price data will be resolved against item master and price data, and the item(s) will be shown on the cart. By this method, multiple items can be placed on the flatbed reader and thus added to the cart in a single read, rather than separate scan actions for each. An error message will be shown for item(s) placed on the RFID flatbed reader that cannot be reconciled (i.e. bad tag, unknown id, invalid EPC code, etc.). The scanning of EPC or SGTIN barcodes is not supported for RFID items. The flatbed reader must be used to capture the tag. Refer to Order Management - RFID Cart for more information on how RFID updates orders. 3. "Enter the Bar Code" function - select MORE - ENTER BAR CODE and an entry field is shown which allows scanning/typing of a bar code. RFID tags will not be read in Enter the Bar Code mode. 4. Item Quick Entry - By setting this to true, an Item Entry field is displayed by default at any time while the cart screen is shown, unless the user is in a special state such as Modify. User can type an item bar code without selecting MORE - ENTER BAR CODE, since the entry field is typically always displayed. RFID tags will not be read in Quick Item mode. 5. Selecting an item from the product catalog and using the Add To > Cart menu option 6. Searching for an item via Global Search and using the Add To > Cart menu option Note: Just like Item Number - Coupons, Employee Code, Order Number and Loyalty Numbers are also eligible for smart scan at any time provided rules have been configured for them. For example: with initial default seed data, a coupon code to be smart-scanned correctly must start with digit 9 and has a total of 28 digits - this initial rule can be customized by each retailer. Note: Adding items to Ship to Address, Pick Up In Store or Ship To Store order types can also depend upon the enablement of the individual flags at the Selling Attribute in Item configuration. When the business flag Validate Item Fulfillment Methods at POS is set to true,then the application allows the creation of a specific order type only when the individual flag is set to true for that specific delivery method. Price for Non-merchandise items will be pulled from web price i.e location = null. We currently don't support location specific price. Item Sellable/Not Sellable at Stores configuration This uses an attribute of the Master item record item>sellingAttributes>soldInStore (BooleanTrue). This attribute causes two different types of restrictions on selling an item on the cart, depending on whether the item is directly entered (typed or scanned) or entered indirectly from catalog or item search. Item entered by direct entry (typing or scanning the SKU) If soldInStore is False for an item, once the bar code is entered to the cart the user is prevented from including that item in the order unless he/she has the appropriate manager override grant.  If he/she is not associated to a role that has that grant, a manager key of a user with that grant must be provided to include the item. item is added via Catalog or Global Search If soldInStore is False for an item, the item is blocked and cannot be added to the POS cart, regardless of manager permissions of the user. VAS in POS Value added services (VAS) are item-level services such as gift wrapping, monogramming, and embroidery, which a customer can optionally add during order capture. While adding an order line, users can navigate through the Modify option on the POS Cart screen and apply the VAS to the order lines. The option is controlled by means of grants. When the user selects the VAS, it provides the option to select the different services that are configured under the VAS. One can select individual or multiple options. In case the user wishes to add a different VAS or modify an already added one, they can select VAS from the Modify button. To remove the VAS, users can use the "X" button displayed against the applied VAS and remove the individual VAS from the order line. The user will be able to view the "X" button on the VAS if they have the grant ui::posservice::removevas associated with their role. Also, users must have the grant overrideaccess::posservice::overridevas  associated with the role, else a manager override popup will be displayed to remove the existing VAS. VAS are associated with descriptive text.  At POS this description can be later viewed and revised using MODIFY - VAS functionality. Note: The VAS is configured for individual items and currently in POS, VAS is not location controlled. Item Display (Compact Cart) Retailers who do large volume transactions may want to decrease the amount of scrolling an associate needs to perform to see all the items in the transaction.  This can be enabled by the "Enable Compact Cart" flag in POS Store Configuration>Store Common Config. The Simplified view will display the Short Description, Quantity and Extended Price of the item.  The information will be displayed on 1 (one) line on a tablet and 2 (two) lines on a handheld.  The user will be able to click on a '+' icon to expand the item information to show item image, sku, item modifiers (i.e. discount, tax override, etc.), price and any custom information (i.e. size, color, etc.).  The user will then be able to click on the '-' icon to collapse the item information and return to the simplified view (short description, quantity and extended price). The Expanded view will display the item image, sku, item modifiers (i.e. discount, tax override, etc.), price and any custom information (i.e. size, color, etc.). The Simplified and Expanded views will apply to the: Cart Screen for all items (Sale, BOPIS,  Ship, etc). Return Screen with the exception of no extended price or collapse/expand on the Return screen. The Order Details screen will continue to display items in expanded mode (i.e. image, sku, item modifiers, etc). Duplicate Items on Cart There are instances wherein the associate accidentally enters or scans the same item more than once while creating an order. This can happen either while entering the sales order or even return orders. The application provides an option to identify such entries before completing the payment process of the order and allows the associate to correct the order if required. If the company chooses to highlight such entries, they can enable the flag "Prompt for Potential Duplicates In Cart" located in "POS Store Configuration>Store Common Config" to check the duplicate items before processing an order. When the configuration is enabled, users will notice a warning pop-up upon hitting the Checkout button on the Cart screen.  The pop-up highlights that there are duplicate items on the cart. However, currently it does not list out the duplicate item numbers. Associates have the ability to either ignore the message and continue processing the order or go back to the cart and make amends if required. If the associate chooses to add multiple items from the Catalog and then selects the checkout icon from the top of the Catalog screen, the application still checks for the duplicates and throws a pop-up message. Associate are required to either continue with the selection or amend the cart. The duplicate item check is also performed when a user is trying to return an order and tends to add the same item more than once on the return order. The application will display the pop-up before allowing the user to proceed. The "Prompt for Potential Duplicates In Cart" flag will be ignored for RFID items.  if the user places the same RFID-enabled more than once on the flatbed RFID reader, the item will NOT be redundantly added to the cart. Note: The check on the duplicate items is performed only on the same fulfillment group. For Ex: associates will not see the duplicate items pop-up if Item 1 is added to the cart once for Ship-To Order and once for In-Store Purchase.However, the duplicate check is performed if the same item is present more than once on the same fulfilment group. Order Hold - Zero Price Sometimes, while creating the orders, users end up adding items which may not have the price defined for them. The application is not very intuitive to the store associate and they are unable to take the appropriate corrective action. Furthermore, the application allows the user to move ahead with the order completion without price. However, the subsequent actions such as Tax calculation and invoice closure did not work as expected. To avoid such a scenario, the application is equipped to place the order on hold if the price of the item is 0.00. An error pop-up displays the list of all such items without the price. The user is further directed back to the Cart to take corrective action, like manually updating the price or removing the item itself as desired. This is a generic approach for normal sales, returns, exchanges and BOPIS sell more orders. There is no configuration required for this process. Gift Card Sales in the Cart MAO POS supports two basic flows for selling/reloading Gift Card line items. Activate/Load Card(s) at End When POS General Configuration > Common Config > Activate Gift Card in Cart is set to False, New or Reload Gift Card items are added to and priced in the cart via menu or scanning but the GC provider is not called until the end of the transaction, after all payments have been accepted and the transaction balance is 0.00. At that time, User is prompted to enter a gift card account number. The system will call the gift card provider to activate the card. If the activation fails, the user will be notified. User can retry based on the retry configuration. If the card cannot be activated, the transaction is either completed with the failed card, charging the customer but refunding later by manual methods, or, the transaction must be abandoned, depending on the T/F value set for posGeneralConfig business flag "Allow Order Completion With GC Activation Failure" Activate/Load Card(s) as Added to Cart When the Activate Gift Card in Cart configuration is set to True, gift card activation/reload will occur at the time the item is added to the cart. posGeneralConfig business flag "Allow Order Completion With GC Activation Failure" must be TRUE to use this workflow. Select gift card New/Reload from the more menu Select or enter the amount.  Press OK At this time, while still in the cart, the user is prompted to enter a gift card account number. The system will call the gift card provider to activate/reload the card. If the activation fails, the user will be notified. User can retry based on the retry configuration. Once the number of retries is met and activation/reload is unsuccessful, the gift card line item will be removed from the order. If the gift card activation succeeds, the user will be notified and the gift card line will be updated with the last 4 digits of the display number. If the customer changes their mind, the user can select the single line, or multiple lines, and can void the item. The system will call the processor to reverse the added funds. If the reversal is successful, the funds are removed from the gift card and the order line or lines are cancelled. If the reversal fails, the user will be notified and the order line will remain in the cart. The user can complete the transaction and charge the customer for the "unwanted" Gift Card, whose reversal status is unclear, OR User can again select VOID for the GC line item.  At this point, the line will be removed from the cart without retrying the 'failed' reversal and the customer will not be charged. The  second cart Gift Card Line Item void attempt will only cancel the order line, to prevent charging the customer for a gift card they no longer want. It will not attempt to remove the funds from the gift card.  Removal of funds following a failed reversal must be handled during reconciliation.  Associate should be instructed to recollect and/or destroy the card as funds may remain on it. Additional Transaction/Item Overrides/Modifiers Assign Transaction to a Customer: "Activate" a customer Permanent customer records may be created at POS. The unique key to each customer master record could be autogenerated, or - less commonly nowadays - the customer phone number or email could be assigned as the customerId. This is based on the setting for customer>customerConfig>customerIdGenerationStrategy.   Valid entries for this are "Auto Generation", "Phone", or "Email".  Null is treated as "Auto Generation". When such a customer is created or retrieved into a transaction, they may be "activated".  This causes the transaction to be associated with that customer's purchase history record. POS can be configured to call a validation function API as part of the activation.  This allows the retailer to interpolate extra customer validation that may be desired. If no existing or new customer is "activated" during the course of the transaction, even if some transactional name/address information is collected for Ship to Address or other reason, the transaction is a "Guest" transaction and the order data is not associated with a specific customer record. Adding Customer loyalty number Customer can associate a loyalty number to the transactions. This can be done by either activating a customer who has loyalty number associated in customer database, or if it is a guest customer, then the retailer can directly type the number (or scan the loyalty card) from cart > more menu option which will then be associated to the transaction. When a loyalty number is linked to the transaction, the information can be seen in the header section of the application. The loyalty information will be printed on the customer receipts. Customer with loyalty number - Associates can edit the customer and add the loyalty number data and this data will be persisted to the customer database. During purchases, if the customer is linked to the transaction, then the loyalty number will also be persisted along with other data in this transaction. Guest with loyalty number - Customer can continue transactions as Guest but can still link their loyalty number to the transaction. Associates can scan/enter the loyalty number of the customer directly without associating the customer to the transaction. This loyalty number will be persisted along with other data in this transaction. Note: Loyalty entered from cart > more menu option is passed on to the order, but is not displayed on the UI. The loyalty info that gets displayed on the UI next to the customer name is from the customer master. These two loyalty numbers are independent. Note:  When a user searches for a customer, as during a ShipTo Order from Cart/Item Details page, and one or more customers are found, the matching records are displayed in the search result list.  Even if the search returns a single customer record, it is not auto-activated, until the user manually highlights the record and selects ACTIVATE CUSTOMER. Employee Transaction User can initiate an Employee Transaction by selecting the "Employee Transaction" option on the more overlay menu.  This option is available when the cart is empty, which means, before adding any item (sale or return).  Upon selection, the user is prompted to enter the employee ID.  If the system is configured to validate the entered value, validation takes place by checking if the entered value exists in the employee database.  If found, an order is created with employee and the associated job class populated on orderCaptureDetail entity. Note: This employeeID and job class are only for the purposes of creating/tracking a transaction associated to an employee.  These records need not be connected directly to Organization "users" and job classes are not linked to "roles", although there may be an indirect org/user validation as a retailer can configure whether or not a logged in user can assign their own Employee ID to a transaction. Retailer can choose not to validate, in which case the entered value is accepted without validating and an order gets created.  In case user enters the employee ID more than once, the current value gets overridden. A user exit is provided to validate the employee through non-Manhattan Active application. Retailer can also choose to validate their current logged in user with employee for whom the transaction is being created. Some allow both to be the same, others do not. System can be configured to prevent both to be same. If the validation fails, no order is created. These two configurations are independent; retailers can choose to turn on any or none.  Refer to POS Configuration guide for more details on the configurations. Linking Employee to Customer: Many businesses consider their employees as customers and like to maintain a link between employee and customer records. POS provides an option for the retailers to link the employee numbers to the customer records at the customer profile level. To create this link specific grants are associated to the user role.  Users can add/modify the employee record in the customer profile only if the user has the specific resource linked to their role. If an employee number is associated to a customer record, while creating orders, when the user associates the customer to the order the linked employee number is also updated on the order. Vice versa, initiating an employee transaction with a linked customer record causes the linked customer to be activated for the order. The previously described validation with respect to the logged in user takes place as per the process while creating a sales order. The employee is linked to the sales order once the configured validation against the employee and user is passed. Note: While creating a return order the customer is auto activated from the original order.   The associated employee number is also populated on the return order if the customer has a record present.   Similarly, the return of an employee sale causes the Return to be auto-linked to the original Employee, persisted from the original Sale. The link between the customer and the employee is only verified and displayed if the business flag AutoLink Employee Returns to Employee is enabled.  In the special case of auto-linked employees in Returns, the employee/customer record is directly persisted on the return order and no validation against the employee vs logged in user is enforced even if the configuration exists. RFID items RFID items can have their quantity modified. However, only one EPC will be recorded in the order. RFID items can be marked as delivery, pickup or part of a quote.  The EPC will be recorded in the order. All other item/transaction modifiers (i.e. discount, void, price / tax override, etc.) can be applied to RFID items. Tax Override Store associate can override the tax at line or order level. Order level tax override:  Only percentage override is allowed at order level, which gets applied to all lines with the exception of return lines. This overrides the line level tax overrides. Example: Cart has a line.  User overrides tax on this. Add another line and override tax at header level. This gets applied to both lines. The previous one is no longer applicable. Users can override taxes at the header level multiple times. If overridden at order level, line level tax override is now allowed. Order Level Tax override is not applicable to return lines, with or without parent order. For non-validated return order , override the tax if necessary at orderline level from POS system. Order line level tax override: System allows order line tax override by percentage and amount. This is applicable to the selected line alone. User can override line tax multiple times, but only the latest one prevails. This is not cumulative. Example: User adds a line. Apply line level tax override of 1.00, followed by 2.00. The tax amount is 2.00, not 3.00. Percentage tax override is applied to the line's discounted price. Header level discount does not impact the line level tax rate. Orderline Level Tax override is allowed on return lines without parent order. Tax Exempt Store associate can exempt the tax at order level. Customer walking into the store can avail exemption from Tax by providing the requisite tax certificate number. The store associate enters this value along with the reason for exemption. This can happen while the order creation is in progress or before the order is created. In the former case, the current order gets updated; in the latter, a new Order ID is generated. Customer may also be prompted to signature when the POS store config > store common config "Capture Signature On Tax Exempt"  is turned on.  The signature will be captured on the payment terminal (if configured), else the signature will be captured on the register.  The signature prompt will occur when the Checkout option is selected. Manual Discounts User may apply for discounts manually via either percent or amount off to Items or to the entire transaction. If the discount is added at transaction level, then the discount is prorated to all the items in the transaction. To make any item discountable, the isDiscountable flag should be true under item config. [Manage Items>Items>Selling attributes>Discountable>True]. Under item selling attribute, users can also configure discount threshold for each item. Threshold can be set for below : Max Discount Max Discount Percentage Max Discount Amount In case the applied discount exceeds the threshold, UI will throw an error saying-" The entered value exceeds the maximum discount allowed for this item". Voiding manually added discounts: When the business flag in POS general config > common config "Allow voiding of discounts at line or transaction level"  is turned on, it provides the user the capability to remove the manually added discount from item or transaction level. If the transaction discount is removed, then all prorated discounts on all items will be removed. If any promotion is qualified after voiding discounts, then it will be automatically added to all the qualified/target items. The discounts added or voided from transactions or items are all recorded in an electronic journal. Note: There is a message that says  "You Saved $X.XX"  displayed at the end of the receipt when a discount is applied on an order. This is only included in the receipt if Order.StoreReturnCount is equal to 0, and Order.TotalDiscounts is negative. Calculate Tax in Cart on Demand option Note:  This feature is controlled using a business flag Calculate Tax On Demand which is placed in POS Store Configuration> Store Common Config. This feature is supported on both fixed and mobile registers. The most common way to add items to the cart is by SKU entry, either scanned from barcode or hand-keyed.  When such an item is added there are a lot of backend processes happening to look up and display the required item data - e.g., the image, the description, size, color, department, and price and any promotional deals.  One of these processes is to fetch and apply the sales tax to the item. The API call that fetches the tax details for each individual item when they are scanned has impact on the overall processing speed of retrieving the item information. The impact may be negligible when there are only a few items in the cart.  However, when the associates are scanning the items very fast and there are a very high number of items scanned in one go, it potentially can impact the speed considerably. To improve the performance of the item entry process for each item, POS now provides the option to calculate tax in Cart only on demand.   When this option is configured, the application does not make continuous frequent calls to the tax engine to retrieve the tax value dynamically "as you go" for each item.  Instead, there is a Calculate button provided at the footer level in Transaction Summary of the Cart screen under the Tax section to initiate the tax calculation. With this setting, normally during the course of the transaction  the tax API will not be called and taxes will no longer be shown in the cart. If the associate wants to see the taxes prior to Checkout, he/she can select the Calculate tax function. If not, the taxes will typically be calculated only once at the end batchwise for all items at once, when Checkout is selected.  At this point POS will make the API call to the tax engine to get the tax details. The behavior pertains to the below scenarios of adding items to the Cart: When the item is Scanned using the scanner. When the item is typed and entered in “Quick Item Entry”. When the item is typed in the “Type Barcode” popup. The behavior does not pertain when items are added via RFID, global search, or catalog. :Once the items are added to the Cart, as noted associates will have two choices to get the tax details : Click on Calculate button and get the tax details on the Cart screen itself and then Checkout to Order Summary for payment. Directly click on Checkout button and navigate to Order Summary screen for payment where the tax details will also be displayed. In both the above scenarios, the application will make a call to the Tax engine and fetch the tax details against the order.   There are several other scenarios which automatically initiate the dynamic continuous Tax calculation strategy - these are described below. Note:  Once tax is calculated via any trigger - either by use of the Calculate function, by selecting Checkout to Order Summary and returning to cart, or one of the other triggers described below - it will continue to be calculated in the transaction on a dynamic ongoing basis for each item/change.  Invoking the Tax API once works like a one way ratchet, resulting in ongoing continuous tax calculation and disabling the Tax on Demand strategy.  For this reason, once the tax details are fetched on the Cart screen either using the Calculate button or Checkout  button, the application will no longer display the Calculate button on Cart for that specific transaction. Below are actions which automatically initiate dynamic continuous calculation of tax: Adding items to the carts by navigating from Catalog,  item search, or RFID.  These will directly call for the tax engine and tax will show on the Cart. BOPIS order flow where Sell More is selected by the associate. Adding return items. Any of these overrides/modifier functions: Price Override, Manual discount VAS Qty Override Shipping for STA lines Changing to Ship to Address or Pick up at Store Adding non-Merch RFID scan Using Modify button to create different order types: STA/PAS/STS Tax Exempt -  To perform a Tax Exempt to the Order on the Cart screen, the associate is prompted to calculate the Tax first in case not already done using the Calculate button. Suspend and Resume The Suspend & Resume feature allows store users to temporarily pause an active transaction and resume it later on the same business day. To suspend an active order, simply click the "Suspend" button in the menu on the Cart screen. To resume a suspended order, navigate to the "Resume Transaction" option in the "More" menu. A pop-up displaying a list of all suspended orders will appear. Users can either scan a receipt or select the desired transaction from the list and click "OK" to resume it. If a customer is associated with the order, their name will be suspended along with the transaction. Upon suspending a transaction, users will automatically receive a suspended transaction receipt. Currently, reprinting a suspended receipt is not possible if the initial print fails. Reason Code display While performing functionalities like overriding price, adding item or transaction discount on an order line etc, businesses expect to update the orders with specific reason codes for these actions. Sometimes these codes have to be specific to the platforms, like POS, CSR etc. An option is provided in the Manage Order Configuration -> Order Reason to configure different types of Reason Code for such functionality. The Order Reason can be used in conjunction with the reason code business flag which are already present. For example: In POS General Configuration there is a configuration Item Discount Reason Code. Once the user enables it, they can configure the reason code in the Order Reason which they want to be displayed in the drop down. Note: For POS specific order, the flag Manage Order Configuration > Reasons >  Eligible For Point of Sale is set to True by default for existing and newly created reason code. Totals Container (Footer) The totals container provides a quick transaction summary for the customer by displaying the number of items in the cart, the subtotal, tax and the order total. If a Ship to Address item is also within the cart, the Shipping and Handling also gets displayed. Quick Swipe Each line item has two available quick swipe options: Gift Receipt and Void. This allows the associate to quickly make modifications without having to tap through any of the menus. Quick Swipe will be available if the "Enable Compact Cart" flag is enabled.  On the handheld, only the icons for the swipe options will be displayed.  There will be no text underneath the icons to denote the functionality. Tendering The Payment component has configurable rules governing payment options. At checkout state, POS calls the Payment Component which returns the available tender type options based on these rules. Amount Entry There are many opportunities during Cart Selling operation for the associate to enter an amount.  Examples include Discounts by amount, Price Override, Tax Override by amount, and of course, payment amount entry.  Many of these have limits which can be configured and which are discussed in the appropriate guides.  For example, maximum discounts can be capped for items via item master settings. Note - In addition to special controls that may be available to restrict the amount of entry, globally all POS amount fields limit the amount entry to 99,999,999.99 or less. When do we close invoices for POS orders ? POS makes updates and closes the invoice after the balance is due = 0, but there can be some failure between this and order confirmation. This failure can lead to abandoning an order with incorrect invoices. This leads to retailers taking manual steps to reverse and cancel closed invoices for abandoned/cancelled orders. To make the process for retailers and store associates more practical and seamless considering failures between balance due=0 and order confirmation, i.e. once all the payments are done, i.e. any failure after full payment should not impact business. This is controlled with the below behavioral change flag { "ChangeName": "POS House Keeping API handling", "ChangeDescription": "POS House Keeping API handling will allow retailers to close invoices only after order confirmation. It also addresses, adding the GC activation/reload payment information onto the sales posting. Fixes pessimistic lock exception during order confirmation during huge volume etc.", "AvailableDate": "2023-09-30", "EnableByDate": "2024-09-30" } You need the above behavior flag enabled and UI app version 23.4 for this to work Ship to Address or Send Sale Ship to Address allows a retailer to sell merchandise that the customer does not wish to carry out of the store, or merchandise that is currently unavailable within the store, but is available at a different location or the warehouse. Send Sale allows customers to ship in-store purchases to an address of their choice. It follows the same payment and taxation logic as Ship to Address. In-store Purchase can be modified as Send Sale based on the flag: POS store config>>Allow send sale for in-store purchases. While very similar, the two functions differ as described as they address slightly different business cases. Ship to Address - a customer is purchasing an item to be shipped from the retailer.  It is likely that the customer may not have the physical item in hand - it may have been found by catalog, or search by style, for example.  Although the payment is initiated at the local store, the item is not necessarily shipped from that store - in fact, there may be no local inventory for that item.  It is likely the actual fulfillment will occur by shipping from DC, for example. Send Sale - customer is purchasing an item to be shipped from the same store as the purchase.  It is likely that the customer has the physical item in hand from local stock, but for convenience, or, since it is a gift, wants it sent to an address rather than walking out the store and mailing it themselves, for example.  This could also be useful for retailers who sell craft-type items such as hand painted pottery - the customer doesn't want the item fulfilled via allocation since the shipped item may not match the actual hand painted item in hand.  Not only is payment initiated at the local store, but the item is also assumed to be shipped from that store - as noted, it is generally an off the shelf item which is in hand during purchase. Adding Items Items can be added to Ship to Address in two ways. The customer can choose to modify an existing in-store purchase item, or by searching for a product and adding it to a Ship to Address through the Item Details screen. However, items can be added to Send Sale only one way. The customer can choose to modify an existing in-store purchase item to Send Sale only within Cart screen. Based on the configuration set by the retailer, the system will use the customer's default shipping address, or will prompt the user to select from a list of addresses in the customer's record. If the configuration is set to use the default address, but is not on the file, the user will be prompted to select from the customer's existing address list, or to add a new address. Ship to Address Availability While adding items to Ship To Address, the system may check if there is inventory available in the network to fulfill the requested quantities. System determines whether or not to perform the availability check based on the flag: POS store config>>Check Inventory availability to add items to Order. If this is set to False, item is added to Ship to address order regardless of the availability status. If this is True, the network should have enough availability to fulfill all the units requested as part of the order-save the sale lines. Example: The customer is requesting the same item to be shipped to a different address.  The initial request is for 2, final request is for a total of 4. Order Line 1: Item A: Ship to address: Address 1: requested qty=2.  This gets added to the order only if network availability is >/= to 2 Order Line 2: Item A: Ship to address: Address 2: requested qty=2.  This gets added to the order only if network availability is >/= to 4 as the total requested ship to quantity is now 2+2=4. If item network availability is <4, the user is prompted with an error message and must remove sufficient quantities from the shipping group to match the available quantity. However, there is no inventory or capacity check performed for Send Sale items. This is because the physical inventory was already selected by the customer. Modify an In-Store Purchase To modify an in-store purchase, take the following steps: Add an item to the cart and select the item Tap Modify and select Ship to Address/Send Sale: If it is an active customer, then based on the shipping configuration: The item will automatically appear in the Ship to Address sub-header with the customer's default shipping address. The user will be prompted to select from a list of existing addresses, or add a new address. If the customer is not present in the system, you will be prompted to search for the customer or add the customer as a new customer/guest: If adding a new customer, the associate will be prompted to add a shipping address. If checking out as a guest, the shipping address will be entered but not saved. The associate can choose to edit the Ship to Address for all items by selecting the edit icon on the sub-header. The associate can also choose to select a single item or items, navigate to the Modify menu and select the Shipping Info; a list of addresses for the transaction and/or the customer, where they can select a new address for the selected item(s) or enter a new address that gets displayed. Note: Once a line has been modified to Send Sale, it is not possible to update it to another delivery method such as Store Sale, Pickup In Store, or Ship To Address. The user would need to void the line item and re-add the item back to the Cart. Search for item in product catalog To search for an item in a product catalog, take the following steps: Navigate to the product catalog and navigate through categories Select item and navigate to Item Details, or long tap on the item Select the color and size option Tap the Add To button and select the Ship to Address option: If it is an active customer, then based on the shipping configuration: The item will automatically appear under the Ship to Address sub-header with the customer's default shipping address applied. The user will be prompted to select from a list of existing addresses, or add a new one. If the customer is not present in the system, you will be prompted to search for the customer or add the customer as a new customer/guest: If adding a new customer, the user will be prompted to add a shipping address. If checking out as a guest, the shipping address will be entered but not saved The user can edit the Ship to Address by selecting the edit icon on the sub-header. The associate can also select a single item or items, navigate to the Modify menu and select the Shipping Info; a list of addresses for the transaction and/or the customer where they can select a new address for the selected item(s) or enter in a new address gets displayed. Processing Send Sale Send Sale order lines are force allocated to the store where the POS transaction was completed. While the delivery method for both kinds of shipping requests is Ship To Address, Delivery Method Sub Type indicates whether its Send Sale or not. An additional copy of the receipt is printed for store use. If available, the fulfillment menu Prepare Shipments can be used to filter Send Sale order by scanning the Order ID on the Send Sale Ticket in the filter. After picking is completed, packing can be done immediately. It is advised to perform picking within the Store Application as soon as the transaction is completed. This will avoid picking of the Send Sale fulfillment by other associates. This not only saves a picking trip but ensures that the items chosen by the customer are shipped. In addition, avoid any cancellations due to lack of inventory that directly affects customer satisfaction. Additional details on New/Saved Address With the new business flag "POS General Config >> Allow Additional Detail On Customer Shipping Address" set to FALSE, users can only save limited  information against the additional address records for a customer (not the new additional fields noted below).  Also, the addresses are all tied to the same customer and when the user creates a Ship To Address, details like the first name and last name, email, phone number default from the master customer. With the Business flag  "POS General Config >> Allow Additional Detail On Customer Shipping Address" set to True, users will see the below additional fields when adding a new address against a customer: First Name Last Name Phone Number Email These new fields added to the new/saved addresses window are independent of the master customer information. While entering the customer master information, the same information from the master will be auto-populated by default but is revisable on the shipping form.  Users can choose to update the information on the shipping form, or they can leave it to match the customer master. Additionally, if a registered customer did not previously have these 4 fields saved on a shipping address, when the user chooses to edit the address, the customer information will be auto-populated to match the customer master information. Note: If there is a change in the name, phone number, and email of the master customer record, it does not impact the details on the saved address with 'enhanced detail'.  The new address(s) will retain previously saved first/last/email/phone details. For Example: Customer A has multiple addresses added to its account, such as Address 1, Address 2 etc. These addresses can have the same or different First Name, Last Name, Email And Phone Number. Any change to the profile of Customer A does not change the details in this address. Each added address has to be changed individually to reflect the change. While creating a Ship To Address, customers can either select the address from the list or add a new address for shipping on the Shipping Information screen. The additional fields are displayed on this screen along with the master customer information in separate sections to provide clarity. Control on Ship To Countries While creating a Ship To Address, the system checks if shipping is allowed to the selected country or not. When the business flag POS General Config>>Customer Config>> Enforce Control of Ship To Countries is set to True, then the application will check for the Restrict Shipping Flag in the POS General Config>>POS Country. Country Configuration If, for any country, the Restrict Shipping flag is set to true, then the application will not allow the associate to create a Ship To Address against that country's specific address. A message stating "Shipping To This Country is Unavailable" is displayed under the address in the Shipping Information Screen. Note: When the Enforce Control of Ship To Countries set to True and Restrict Shipping Flag is set against a country then user will not be able to Add New Customer or do a Guest Checkout for Ship To Address if the restricted country is selected. However, user can still add an address for the same country for an existing customer. Pickup or Ship to Store Pickup in Store allows a retailer to sell merchandise to a customer that is currently unavailable in the current location, but is available for immediate pickup at a nearby location. Ship to Store allows a retailer to ship merchandise to a pickup location of the customer's choice. User will have an ability to search for a list of stores within the user-selectable radius. Users can use zip code, city or state as searchable attributes. Pickup at Store Availability While adding items to Pick up at Store, the system may check if there is inventory available in the local store to fulfill the requested quantities. System determines whether to perform the availability check based on the flag: POS store config>>Check Inventory availability to add items to Order. If this is set to False, item is added to Pickup at Store order regardless of the local quantity. If this is True, a local store must have enough availability to fulfill all the units requested as part of the order-save the sale lines. Example: Order Line 1: Item A: Pick up at store: Store 1: requested qty=2. Customer modifies Order Line 1 to request 2 more items to be picked at the same store.  This is allowed only if the local store has at least 4 units. If the item's local quantity is <4, the user is prompted with an error message and must remove sufficient quantities from the pickup group to match the local available quantity. Ship to Store Availability In the case of Ship to store, availability check is performed based on network availability, the same as that of Ship to address order. Nearby Inventory Search Flexible Search by Address Attributes As previously noted, the MAO POS supports "nearby inventory" search for Pickup items by city, state, street address, or zip code when integrated into the Google Maps API with a valid key for that customer. Search field for Pickup or Ship to store will have auto-complete suggestions when Google API key is configured. Users can choose the auto complete results to find item availability in stores nearby. User can also choose not to use auto-complete results and do direct search to find stores. Auto-complete results have a wait period configuration (pos general config > autocomplete wait interval),. The system will wait based on this wait config before displaying the auto-complete results. Limited Search Using only zip/postal code User can enter a valid postal code or zip code to list the nearby item inventory availability. This approach is used when the retailer does not use Google Maps API (i.e., the Google api key or license is not configured or is invalid) to find the nearby item Inventory.  It is applicable only for “List only” configuration, and if users want the map view, a valid Google api key is still required. See View Inventory Process Guide for configuration details if a Google api key is not present. Adding Items Items can be added to a Pickup/Ship to Store in two ways. The associate can choose to modify an existing in-store purchase item, or by searching for a product and adding it through the item detail. Modify an In-Store Purchase To modify an in-store purchase, take the following steps: Add an item to the cart and select the item Tap Modify and select Pickup/Ship to Store option Select a pickup location from the list or map: By default, the results will display Pickup in Store Availability. However, the associate can choose to change the view to show Ship to Store locations, or all locations The associate can edit the zip code or select a larger search radius Inventory availability as well as distance to the current location will be displayed along with the store location information. Once the associate selects the location, they will be prompted to apply to a customer if one is not already active or checkout as a guest. Once a customer is applied, the associate will be brought back to the cart with the item under the Pickup/Ship to sub-header The associate can edit the location by swiping item and choosing "Edit Order". This will allow the user to edit location or customer info per item level. Search for item in product catalog To search for an item in a product catalog, take the following steps: Navigate to the product catalog and navigate through categories Tap item and navigate to Item Details The inventory of the item displayed in the catalog can be configured to be Select color and size option Tap the Add To button and select the Pickup in the Store option: By default, the results will display Pickup in Store Availability. However, the associate can choose to change the view to show Ship to Store locations, or all locations The associate can edit the zip code or select a larger search radius Inventory availability as well as distance to the current location will be displayed along with the store location information. Once the associate selects the location, they will be prompted to apply to a customer if one is not already active. Once a customer is applied, the user will be brought back to the cart with the item under the Pickup/Ship to sub-header The associate can edit the location by swiping item and choosing "Edit Order". This will allow the user to edit location or customer info per item level. Grouping Items on the Cart Fulfillment group Id Since items in the same "Omni" cart are fulfilled different ways - pay and carry, ship to address, pickup - POS uses some logic to decide how to group the items on the screen. Depending on configuration entry for PosGeneralConfig>itemCartGrouping   , POS carts can either be grouped 'on the fly' or by assignment to a fulfillment group Id attribute. If on the fly, cart items are dynamically grouped on the screen based on such attributes as order of entry, delivery method, shipping method, and address. If configured to use fulfillment group ID, out of base the same factors are used to derive a unique fulfillment group Id.   Each unique fulfillment group Id forms a group that will be displayed on the POS cart screen. In other words, typically, Pay and Carry items are grouped separate from Ship to Address "Elm Street" items separate from Ship to Address "Oak Street" items, separate from Pickup at Store 12 items.  Within each group, the items are arranged chronologically in order that the items were scanned/typed into the cart. Check the example below: Additional Purchase at Pickup Additional Purchase at Pickup allows a user to add items to an existing In-Store Pickup without having to create a new transaction. The flow begins within the Store Inventory Fulfillment and the function ends at Point of Sale. Refer to the Confirm Pickup guide for additional information. Add items to the existing store pickup To add items to the existing store pickup, take the following steps: Navigate to Confirm Pickups Tap order and select the Sell More option Items from the existing (parent) order will be under a new header called PREVIOUS. Under the PREVIOUS header, it will be return, ship to, in-store and other pickup items that are not being picked up at this time. Items will be sorted under their own banners (i.e. return items under the RETURNS banner, in-store under the IN STORE banner, etc.). Extended Price will be Red for Return items, Yellow for Discounted items and Gray for other items. "Pills" (i.e. discount, tax override, VAS, etc.) will be shown as watermarked under items in the PREVIOUS section. Items being picked up today will be under a new header called TODAY. Pickup Items will be sorted under their own banner, PICKUP Extended Price will be in Yellow for Discounted items and Gray for other items. "Pills" (i.e. discount, tax override, VAS, etc.) will be shown as watermarked under PICKUP items in the TODAY section. 3. Scan a new item, or add an item through the product catalog. Newly added items will be shown under the In-Store sub-header in the TODAY section. Note: BOPIS > Sell more feature  supports only In Store lines (pay and carry items) to be added.  You cannot add Ship to Address or Pickup items as part of a BOPIS-Sell more transaction. 4. The TRANSACTION SUMMARY section will contain: SUBTOTAL, TAX and TOTAL, which will reflect the items from the parent order and newly added items. PREVIOUSLY PAID, which will reflect the amount tendered for the parent order.  This amount will never change, even if the promotions are applied to items in the parent order. BALANCE will the TOTAL of the order minus the PREVIOUSLY PAID amount. 5. Once payment is received, the user will be prompted to collect the Confirm Pickup signature from the customer. Promotions on Pick Up at Store orders with additional purchase When the items are sold, in a transaction which may include BOPIS items as well as off the shelf or ship to address items, the order and all items in the order are submitted to the price-promo engine and deals may be assigned. Promotional deals are active for specific date range, so the same order can qualify for different deals when performed at different dates. The order sends individual order creation dates of different order types (BOPIS, In Store Purchase, Ship To Address etc) to the promotion engine to evaluate the best promotion deal that can be applied to the overall order. Let us consider the below scenario to understand how the promotion is applied based on the order creation date. Part 1 - Original Sale (BOPIS items) – When the items are sold, in a transaction which may include BOPIS items as well as off the shelf or ship to address items, the order and all items in the order are submitted to the price-promo engine and deals may be assigned. 1.Promo deals are typically only active during a specific date range, so the exact same order may receive different deals if performed on 8/17 vs 8/25. 2.For example, two 50.00 red shirts are sold as pickup items on 8/17 at store 101 to be picked up at store 202. They qualify for Deal001 "BUY 2 GET 10% OFF", so the customer is charged 45.00 each or 90.00 when the order is created. Part 2 - SELL MORE sale – For the same example, on 8/25, the customer arrives at store 202, and while picking up the two shirts decides to purchase a 3rd identical 50.00 red shirt. Applying Promotion - The entire basket (3 red shirts for 150.00 or 50.00 each) is re-submitted to the promo engine and re-evaluated. The two BOPIS shirts are submitted with 8/17 and the 3rd shirt is submitted with the current date of 8/25. 1.IF Deal001 is no longer active (expired on 8/18), but the deal is not deleted from the Promo database OR if Deal001 is still active, and there are no other deals, the customer will still receive the original deal.  The two original shirts will be priced at 10% off or 45.00 each and the deal is re-awarded, since it was valid on that sale date. Customer will pay 50.00 for the new shirt. The balance due on the BOPIS/SELL MORE will be 50.00. 2.IF Deal001 is no longer active (expired on 8/18) but not deleted from the Promo database OR if Deal001 is still active, AND if there is a better deal, Deal002 "BUY 2 GET 50% OFF THE THIRD", then the result will depend on the active dates of the 'better' deal. IF Deal002 was active on 8/17 and is still active on 8/25,  then Deal002 will apply INSTEAD of Deal001 and the customer will get the shirts for: 50.00, 50.00, and 25.00. The original BOPIS items will be repriced to full price, but the customer will get 25.00 off the third SELL MORE shirt, resulting in a 'better deal'. The balance due on the BOPIS/SELL MORE will be 35.00. IF Deal002 was not active until 8/18 and is still active on 8/25, nevertheless Deal002 will NOT apply, because it can't be applied to original BOPIS 8/17 items. .The customer will still receive the original deal.  The two original shirts will be priced at 10% off or 45.00 each and the deal is re-awarded, since it was valid on that sale date.  Customer will pay 50.00 for the new shirt. The balance due on the BOPIS/SELL MORE will be 50.00. Order Notes Order Notes provides the ability to add messages, instructions, additional details with respect to the overall Order or a specific item in the Order.  Commonly, such notes can be useful in the case of Ship To or Pick Up at store orders, as they allow the associate to include some specific information on the order or item before the order can be delivered to the end customer. These notes can be associated to specific categories and types, which are chosen from configurable selections. POS Order notes allow the user to enter 750 characters of information each at Order Header and/or line Item Level. To add Order Header Level Notes perform the steps below on the Cart Screen: Add an item in the Cart screen either directly or select the item from the Catalog. Once in the Cart screen, select the clip icon from the global toolbar in the top right corner of the application to add an Order Header Note. Additionally, Order Header Notes can be added by selecting the Notes option from the Modify menu. When there is no item selected, the user can directly click on the Notes option, which opens the Order Notes Pop up. Using the New Order Notes button, users can select the specific category and type of the notes and add the relevant information. To add Order Item Notes, perform the steps below on the Cart screen: Add an item in the Cart screen either directly or select the item from the Catalog. To add on the item level note, select the Item and then swipe left on the screen to display the Item Notes button. Additionally, users can click on Modify button and navigate to the Notes option to select the Item Notes. Item Note is visible only when a single item is selected on the Cart screen and not when more than one or no item is selected. Once at the Item Note popup, select the New Item Note and choose the correct Note Category and type to enter the required information. To Edit or delete the Order Header or Item Level Notes : The process is similar for both types of notes. From the Order Notes or Item Notes pop up, the user can left-swipe on the specific note which is to be modified to display the Edit and Delete button. Selecting Edit opens a new window which has the option for the user to edit the Note Type and also the Note information.Users can not change the Note Category though. Similar to Edit, specific notes can be deleted either from the Edit screen by selecting the Delete option or clicking on the Delete button displayed upon left swipe on the Note pop up. Note: When an Order Header Note is added to the order the clip icon at the top toolbar displays the count of the Order Notes added. Similarly, a clip icon is displayed at the left-hand corner of the item image displaying the count of the item Notes added to the specific line item. Note: The Order Header and Item Notes can be accessed for past purchase orders from either searching for the order from the global search or accessing through the customer past purchases. Notes can only be viewed on the Order details and Past Purchases screen and cannot be added, modified or deleted from these screens. Delivery Date Display The POS Cart screen is enhanced to display the expected delivery date for the Ship To or Pick up at Store order based on the availability of the item. This functionality is driven by a business flag coupled with a resource id.  When the business flag is enabled, an ETA label is displayed on the Cart Screen which displays the delivery date for the order. When the grant is associated to the user role, the application retrieves the delivery date and displays on the cart screen against the ETA label. In case the grant is missing for that user, but the business flag has been enabled, the Cart screen still displays the ETA label but a "Not Available" text is displayed instead of the delivery date. The application will not make any API call to retrieve the delivery date for such users. The API call to retrieve/refresh the delivery date is carried out whenever there is a change in the Quantity, Shipping Address or Shipping Method. The delivery date is also displayed when there is a change in delivery options -  e.g., an in-store order is changed to a Shipping order.  In such a scenario, also, the delivery dates are retrieved based on the item, shipping address and method information, and displayed against the item line. Tax Display Depending on a retailer's location, taxes to be collected on items may be configured as Sales Tax or Informational Tax - also commonly known as VAT Tax.  Based on the type of tax being returned from the tax engine, the POS system will display sales tax, (labeled TAX), in the totals container, or will display Informational Tax (labeled INFORMATIONAL TAX). The chart below describes the UI behavior based on the Tax configurations. primaryTaxAsInfo hideInformationalTax Expected UI N N The totals container will display a TAX label on the total container.  This setting is typical of a "Sales Tax" type setup. N N The totals container will display a TAX label in the totals container. If informational tax is returned, then an additional UI field with Informational Tax label will appear (Cross boarder shipping scenario). N Y The totals container will display a TAX label in the totals container. If informational tax is returned, then the Informational Tax field will NOT appear, EXCEPT on Ejournal Y N The totals container will display an INFORMATIONAL TAX label in the totals container. If tax is returned, then an additional UI field with a TAX label will appear (Cross boarder shipping scenario). Y N The totals container will display an INFORMATIONAL TAX label in the totals container. This setting is typical of an "Informational Tax (VAT)" type setup where the informational tax is visible. If informational tax is returned, then the informational tax field will be updated with value from order response If tax is returned, then an additional UI field with TAX label will appear (Cross boarder shipping scenario) Y Y The totals container will NOT display an INFORMATIONAL TAX label in the totals container. This setting is typical of an "Informational Tax (VAT)" type setup where the informational tax is hidden. If informational tax is returned, then the Informational Tax field will NOT appear, EXCEPT on Ejournal If tax is returned, then an additional UI field with TAX label will appear (Cross boarder shipping scenario) Note: As can be seen from the chart, regardless of the initial Cart setting, if non-zero amounts of both types of tax are present in the same transaction, both Tax and Informational (VAT) Tax containers may potentially be shown. Local tax may be used if configured in POS.   The maximum number of decimal places for a local tax rate is 12 (i,e, 0.123456789012).  However, when the tax is calculated, it will be rounded to the specified number of decimal places (i.e. For the US, a tax rate of 0.8125 on a $9.99 item would be calculated as .8116875 and be rounded to .81). When a tax provider is offline, POS does NOT fall back to local tax.  POS works as follows for: In-Store Purchases, tax is shown and recorded as $0.00.  The order would be placed on HOLD, which is NOT shown by POS. Returns with Receipt, the original tax would be charged and the order would flow through. Returns without Receipt, tax is shown and recorded as $0.00.  The order would be placed on HOLD, which is NOT shown by POS. Pickup, Ship to Store or Ship to Address, tax is shown and recorded as $0.00.  The order would be placed on HOLD, which is NOT shown by POS. Note: Local Tax can be configured as a failover gateway, and in the event of a third-party tax call failure, tax calls will be re-directed to the local tax configuration, and order tax details can be created from the local tax rates. Additional details as well as configuration can be found in the Order Selling Tax Guide. Post Void General Post voids occur when a customer or store associate wants to effectively invalidate an order.  A post void most commonly occurs when a store associate has made a mistake in ringing up a confirmed order and is analogous to an application "Undo" command, but since payment is involved, "Undo'ing" the order can be complicated and the capability is not unlimited - it will ultimately be restricted by what the types of reversals, cancelations, or refunds the Payment Gateway supports for various payment types. Unlike mid-transaction voids, post voids can occur a couple of hours after the transaction was completed. Transactions can only be post-voided in the same store and on the same business day they were originally created.  If such transactions involved card/cash/check payments, then these payments should be reversed and corresponding payment transactions are recorded.  For certain payment types such as Traveler's Check, it cannot be refunded back to the original traveler's check; instead, they are refunded via a different payment method like cash. In general, Post void functionality allows order (sale/return) and manager functions (payouts, payins, etc) transactions to be post voided within limits. There are certain transactions which are restricted from being post voided. Find the details below. Post void of E-com order is not allowed. Post void of order which is partially returned is not allowed. Post void of Purchase/Reload/Balance inquiry of Gift card is not allowed. Post void of Split Tender transactions is not allowed. Payment type restrictions - With default Base configs, Post void of order involving Debit card, Gift Card, Store Credit as one of the payment or only payment type are not allowed.  But this can be configured to allow post void if customer's payment processor supports it, via the payCaptureConfig>Detail>Permit Cancel and Permit Post Void on Refund settings for the payment types. Post void of transaction also depends on the delivery method of the order line. If it's an inStore sales line, then post void is allowed until the max Fulfillment status =7000 i.e. fulfilled. If it's a Save the sale line, post void is allowed until the max Fulfillment status =3000 i.e. released. After the released status, the units will be through the process of picking and packing from the fulfillment system, which will complicate the cancelation process. Hence, it's recommended to go for return after this point for transaction containing save the sale lines past released status. Post Voiding Refunds Post void of a refund - these postvoids are problematic, because the original transaction was a refund by which the customer received payment (refund to debit/credit, by cash, by issuing a gift card).  Therefore, in order to "undo" the refund, you must charge the customer - for the simplest example, to Postvoid a 10.00 cash refund, it is assumed that the associate re-collected 10.00 cash from the customer - and not all gateways and customer payment implementations support "follow on charges" to all payment types.   For each retailer implementation, configure those payment types for which you want this to be supported by enabling payCaptureConfig>Detail> Permit Post Void on Refund settings for them. But Post Void of Refund is not allowed regardless of payment configures if a refund transaction was done on more than one payment type or same payment type with 2 payment method (split tender, or refund partly to Visa and partly to Amex, for example). Order Line Cancelation POS order details display the canceled lines against the specific order. As mentioned earlier, an order line can be voided using the swipe on the item line or using the void option on the cart. While creating different types of orders, like In-Store Sale, Ship To, Pick-up at store etc., whenever the associate voids an order line, it is updated on the order and is displayed when the associate checks the order details. Once the order id is burnt the cancelled line is associated to the order. The quantity is set to zero for such lines and the status is displayed as cancelled. External Web Access Store users will be able to browse external web from the home menu > Web Access screen when configured. Based on the configuration, the screen will be loaded with the list of web links, upon selection, an in-app browser or a separate browser window opens ups in your default browser. This browser will appear with the configured link for browsing. Users can do the following but not limited to below. Navigate from this link to any other just as usual browsing. Navigate back to the previous page etc. In some cases, URLs containing pdf or any downloading can be downloaded or viewed. Please note that the external web access browser is supported mostly for view/read only mode. It is not recommended to use this platform or functionality to perform core POS checkout for store report management. It is not recommended to use this functionality to download or print pdf or forms. When the hyperlink's target property is set to blank, it opens in a new window on the default browser when clicked. Configuration: Store administrators can use the master data facade UI "External Web link" to configure the external URLs. Store Sales Metrics POS Store users can access store level sales metrics within the store app. Sales metrics data is computed and fetched to the logged-in store. It is accessible from the store app header on Cart, Catalog and Customer screen. The metrics details are as follows: Sales (Total amount of sales done for the day) = Calculated by "Merchandise sale amount - Merchandise return amount" Amount per transaction = (Merch Sale amount + Merch return amount)/Sale and return order count Units per transaction = (# Merch Sale Items + # Merch Return Items)/Sale and return order count Customer Transaction (% transactions with customer profile) = Order count with Active customer/ Sale and return order count Conversion (% of sales vs store traffic)= Number of transactions / Number of Customers who visited the Store. This metric will be represented as the nearest whole number. UI grants: The Metrics is only accessible when store users have ui grants "ui::posservice::salesmetrics" Business Flag: This functionality is accessible by enabling the business flag at POS General config > common Config > "Show Sales Metrics" Scheduler config: Make sure the "wiretap" component is up and running. The scheduler job definition "ReportMetricsJob" was created. Job Schedule for "ReportMetrics" is enabled, Inbound and outbound message types are created as well for the sales metrics.  See the POS Metrics and App Reports guides for technical details. Note: individual sales metrics cannot be hidden on the UI Price Check The price check option from Home Screen provides the ability to get the price of one or more items, including promotions.  The Price Check screen provides the option to either enter or scan the item ID for the sole purpose of determining the selling price. Users should have a scanner, or, enable Quick item entry to add items by typing. Price Check is an exclusive operation - Cart functions cannot be performed during price check, and, price check cannot be launched while the cart is in progress. Performing Price Check causes an order to be created.  The Price Check order is distinguished from a standard customer Order because the orderID always begins with "08".  Additionally, a new order attribute isPriceCheck is set to True for these orders. Exiting the Price Check causes that Price Check order to be effectively abandoned - it will be autocanceled by the store cleanup process and/or store close process. In order not to inflate the number of 'abandoned orders' on any reports, trackers, or dashboards that track this, orders for which "isPriceCheck" True should be excluded in any such tracking.  For example, autocanceled orders with this attribute True (Price Check orders) are excluded from the "Number of Transaction Voids" and "Amount of Transaction Voids" fields on the POS Z report. Note: Price check feature provides both item pricing and promotional pricing information.  However, customer or payment or shipment promotions are not evaluated for this purpose because the Price Check function only supports item entry, not modification to delivery methods or searching/activating a customer. Services The APIs listed below are related to sales at POS and referenced in this document. Refer to API documentation for additional details on each service. Service Component Group Service Endpoint Process Bar code posservice order /storefacade/api/storefacade/posservice/order/processBarcode Add Item to Order posservice order /storefacade/api/storefacade/posservice/order/addItemToOrder Search for a Customer Search customer /storefacade/api/storefacade/search/customer?keyword={{customer name}} Item Availability Inventory inventory /storefacade/api/storefacade/inventory/availability/availabilitydetail Order Save Order order /storefacade/api/storefacade/order/save Void Transaction posservice override /storefacade/api/storefacade/posservice/override/command/transVoid Suspend Transaction posservice override /storefacade/api/storefacade/posservice/override/command/suspend Update Ready for Tender posservice order /storefacade/api/storefacade/posservice/order/updateReadyForTender?orderId={{Order Number}} Transaction Reference posservice order /storefacade/api/posservice/order/createTransactionReferenceForBopis Validate Postvoid posservice posservice posservice/api/posservice/validateTransaction Process Postvoid posservice posservice posservice/api/posservice/processPostvoid Process Postvoid With Till Update posservice posservice posservice/api/posservice/processPostvoidWithTillUpdate Value Entry Required posservice posservice /storefacade/api/storefacade/posservice/override/command/valueentryrequiredamount Customer Entry Data posservice posservice /posservice/api/posservice/customerVisitTracker Validate Customer Activation posservice posservice /posservice/api/posservice/order/validateCustomerActivation Resilient Cloud Capability - when Central Cloud Services are not available If Manhattan's Resilient Cloud Offline/Edge Server capability has been deployed at a location, then in the event a device loses connectivity to Active Omni cloud components, the user has the option of running the Offline POS app. This will allow the user to perform many BackOffice and Cart functions/transactions locally, until the Cloud connectivity is restored. Manhattan Active Point of Sale application provides the ability to execute the following transactions while running in this offline mode. This is a subset of full connected Cloud POS transactions. UI screen and Option Feature Notes Cart Scan Item to add to order Cart>>Modify Associate employee to order and/or orderline Print Gift Receipt Add one or more VAS Add non-merchandise items to order Apply Discount at order or item level.  Amount and percentage are supported Modify order line quantity Cart>>Void Void Item Void Transaction Cart>>More Return /Exchange When the application is running in offline mode, it cannot trace back to the original order.  Hence, these returns are accepted as standalone or returns without receipt. Tender types with "permitInOffline" set to true get listed as valid tender types. Suspend Resume Resuming the transaction suspended online or before the offline transactions are synced to a central server does not work in the offline as the original transaction cannot be tracked back. Cart Manager Functions This includes Pay In, Pay Out, Till Loan, Till Pick up and No Sale. Summary>>Tenders Permitted tender types Tender types with "permitInOffline" are set to true and get listed as acceptable tenders. Void Tender Tenders which are accepted before confirmation are eligible for Void. Receipt Email Receipt Print Receipt Back Office Open Till Open Store Features not supported in Offline application are: UI screen and Option Feature Global search Global search - Item, Order, Customer Customer Add/Edit/Delete customer Clienteling Waiting Room Workspace Appointment Tasks Customer Past Purchases Phone Log Email Log Item Catalog Item catalog with categories Item search Item details with Inventory details Cart Ship to address/Send Sale Pick up at a store Ship to store Post Void Employee Transaction Employee Announcements Activity Notes Web Access Home screen Time Clock Cart RFID Hamburger Menu Time Clock Backoffice Reports Till Reconcile Till Close Store Close