# Price Adjustment

**Permalink:** pricematch
**Content Length:** 19,210 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:36:43.207065

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Maven&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Maven Chatbot and Agent Assist ››Price Adjustment Price Adjustments OverviewPrice Adjustment RulesPrice Adjustment ConfigurationFeature ScopeTroubleshootingDebug API to know why an item is not eligible for Price AdjustmentIn price adjustment if we get this error&nbsp; : Sorry, we are unable to process your price adjustment request at this moment. Please click the button below to contact customer service.In price adjustment if we get this error&nbsp; : Sorry, we are unable to process your price adjustment request at this momentIn Price adjustment, if the customer requested like&nbsp;&nbsp;&ldquo;I want a price adjustment&nbsp;for item similar to Competitor websites.&ldquo;In Price adjustment, if the customer requested like &ldquo;Can you give me a price adjustment of $x amount.&ldquo;In Price adjustment if customer&nbsp;&nbsp;requested like &ldquo;I want price adjustment for multiple items.Related Articles Overview This section provides an overview of&nbsp;Manhattan Active&reg; Maven&nbsp;chatbot to allow Price Adjustment for customer-ordered items when a price drop occurs in the Manhattan Active&reg; Order Management. Below is an example of how a Price Adjustment works in Manhattan Active&reg; Maven: A customer places an e-commerce&nbsp;order The order is confirmed&nbsp;and bridged into Manhattan Active&reg; Omni. The customer identifies the price of the recently placed order has dropped. The customer&nbsp;reaches out to the retailer&nbsp;via a digital assistant for the price drop and corrections. The digital assistant chatbot applies a Price Adjustment when all the conditions are met, otherwise, it provides an option for customers to reach out to the live agent. If an order contains multiple items and the customer requests a price adjustment, the digital assistant chatbot will ask for the details of the items. Price Adjustment Rules Price adjustments&nbsp;are&nbsp;only allowed for confirmed customer orders when: The items are specifically marked as eligible for price override, and the item&#39;s unit price is higher than the current price in Manhattan Active OM. Refer here for configuration.&nbsp;If the item&#39;s selling price is null, the Price Adjustment is not applicable. Line-level discounts (charge type discount, appeasements, promotions&nbsp;&&nbsp;coupons)&nbsp;with DiscountOnId &quot;ItemPrice&quot; are applied to the items not eligible for Price Adjustment. If the payment status is &quot;awaiting payment info,&quot; then the order will not be eligible for a price adjustment. The order line&nbsp;meets the modification rules for price overrides. Additionally, price overrides can be restricted based on specific configurations, such as: Overrides are only allowed within a set number of days (for example, 14 days) from the order line creation date. Refer to the configuration&nbsp;for more information. A maximum discount threshold (for example, &quot;Y%&quot;) is set and applied consistently across all items. Refer to the configuration&nbsp;for more information. The maximum threshold percentage for the first time price override will be calculated based on the order line unit price. For any subsequent overrides, the unit price will be taken from the oldest record in the OrderLinePriceOverrideHistory. Unit price &gt; Updated item price (Unit price - Updated item price) value should be &lt; = Max threshold percentage. Example &nbsp; Item ID Unit Price &nbsp;Updated Item Price in active omni. Max Threshold Percentage = 10% Condition Result 26969630 $100 $95 10% of $100 = $10 ($100-$95) =$5 $5&lt;=$10 = Yes &nbsp; Price Adjustment Allowed 26969631 $100 $85 10% of $100 = $10 ($100-$85)=$15 $15 &lt;=$10 = No Price Adjustment Not Allowed Orders placed during certain&nbsp;dates/ineligible dates are excluded. These&nbsp;dates can include multiple date ranges. Example: No price overrides&nbsp;allowed for items sold between 2023-01-25 and 2023-01-28. Price Adjustment Process If all validation rules pass, the chatbot confirms with the customer to proceed with the price override. If the customer declines (&ldquo;No&rdquo;), the chatbot advises contacting customer support. If the customer agrees (&ldquo;Yes&rdquo;), the chatbot updates the item&#39;s price and confirms the change. Example: &ldquo;Good news! We have adjusted the price of your item to $95, and you will receive a $5 credit.&rdquo; The order line price override history will have reason id populated as &quot;Chatbot_PriceMatch&quot; to track the price overrides done by chatbot. The price override fails if this reason id is not present or deleted. Price Adjustment Configuration The below conditions need&nbsp;to be configured in the Price Adjustment policy document&nbsp;&quot;price-match-policy.txt&quot;. Maximum % discount /&nbsp;Max threshold percentage Eligibility window Ineligible dates / Blackout dates Steps to upload Price Adjustment policy document The following API can be used to view the Price Adjustment policy document POST : {{url}}/omniutil/api/omniutil/documentStore/getText { &quot;DocumentName&quot;: &quot;price-match-policy.txt&quot; } &nbsp;The following API can be used to&nbsp;update the Price Adjustment policy document POST : {{url}}/omniutil/api/omniutil/documentStore/upload?documentName=price-match-policy.txt Price Adjustment Policy 1. Do not allow items sold on window : &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;-a. From 2024-11-25 to 2024-12-01 &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;-b. 2024-12-10 2. Do not allow items that are bought 14 days prior to today&#39;s date. 3. Max allowed Price Adjustment amount is 10%. &nbsp; Note: Ensure&nbsp;the file name is a .txt&nbsp;file type. Ensure the body of the API is the text file itself. In the API headers, set Content-Type to&nbsp;text/plain. Follow the same format for the policy document as provided above, and ensure the date format is yyyy-mm-dd. This API already contains the file name. The prompt/flow files are already equipped to read from this document name&nbsp;(price-match-policy.txt), so all that is required is to save the policy document by following the steps above. The retailer needs to update the FAQ questions in their FAQ documents to ensure the chatbot can support and respond to FAQ-related queries effectively. Please click here&nbsp;for the steps. Use the API below to make the item eligible for a Price Adjustment. Set the IsPriceOverrideable attribute to true. POST :&nbsp;{{url}}/item/api/item/item/save To enable price override from the UI, navigate to Manage Items &gt; Selling Attributes &gt; make Price Overridable checked &gt; Save&nbsp; Feature Scope The following is not supported for Price Adjustment: Return orders or even exchange orders. The customer&#39;s quoted price or a competitor price match&nbsp;are&nbsp;not honored. Time ranges in formats like &ldquo;01-12-2024 12 AM to 12-12-2024 6 PM&rdquo; are not supported for date range exclusion. Troubleshooting Debug API to know why an item is not eligible for Price Adjustment StatusCodeDescription of the API tells you an item is not eligible for price Adjustment [POST] {{url}}/virtualassistant/api/virtualassistant/chatbot/v2/order/priceMatch Registered Customer Payload:{ &quot;CustomerId&quot;: &quot;MultipleOrderCustomer_2025_01&quot;, &quot;OrderId&quot;: &quot;Order_Three_OrderLine_01&quot;, &quot;OrderLineId&quot;: &quot;3&quot;, &quot;IneligibleDates&quot;: &quot;2024-11-25,2024-11-26,2024-11-27,2024-11-28,2024-11-29,2024-11-30,2024-12-01,2025-01-10&quot;, &quot;EligibilityWindow&quot;: &quot;14&quot;, &quot;MaxAllowedDiscount&quot;: &quot;10&quot; } Anonymous Customer Payload:{ &quot;CustomerEmail&quot;: &quot;{:customeremail}&quot;, &quot;CustomerPhoneNumber&quot;: &quot;{:customerPhone}&quot;, &quot;OrderId&quot;: &quot;Order_Three_OrderLine_01&quot;, &quot;OrderLineId&quot;: &quot;3&quot;, &quot;IneligibleDates&quot;: &quot;2024-11-25,2024-11-26,2024-11-27,2024-11-28,2024-11-29,2024-11-30,2024-12-01,2025-01-10&quot;, &quot;EligibilityWindow&quot;: &quot;14&quot;, &quot;MaxAllowedDiscount&quot;: &quot;10&quot; } Response: &quot;data&quot;: { &quot;Messages&quot;: null, &quot;StatusCodeDescription&quot;: &quot;Order is outside the eligibility window.&quot;, &quot;StatusCode&quot;: &quot;PriceMatchNotEligibile&quot; }, In price adjustment if we get this error&nbsp; : Sorry, we are unable to process your price adjustment request at this moment. Please click the button below to contact customer service. If the policy document is not uploaded we will get the above error. As a fix , first upload the policy document using the steps mentioned in &ldquo;Price Adjustment Configuration&quot; sction , then proceed with price match. In price adjustment if we get this error&nbsp; : Sorry, we are unable to process your price adjustment request at this moment If the price adjustment save API fails, we will encounter this error. This may be mainly because &ldquo;ReasonId&quot; is not configured. We need to configure &ldquo;Chatbot_PriceMatch&rdquo; as ReasonId. { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ReasonId&quot;:&nbsp;&quot;Chatbot_PriceMatch&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ReasonTypeId&quot;:&nbsp;&quot;PriceOverride&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;Description&quot;:&nbsp;&quot;Price&nbsp;match&nbsp;request&nbsp;carried&nbsp;out&nbsp;by&nbsp;chatbot&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ShortDescription&quot;:&nbsp;&quot;PriceMatch&nbsp;by&nbsp;chatbot&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ReallocateOnShort&quot;:&nbsp;false &nbsp;} In Price adjustment, if the customer requested like&nbsp;&nbsp;&ldquo;I want a price adjustment&nbsp;for item similar to Competitor websites.&ldquo; Chatbot will not support competitor price however it will support based on the Active Omni price. In Price adjustment, if the customer requested like &ldquo;Can you give me a price adjustment of $x amount.&ldquo; The chatbot will not consider the customer&#39;s quoted price in the price match request. Instead, it will base the price match decision on the selling price listed in the Active Omni . In Price adjustment if customer&nbsp;&nbsp;requested like &ldquo;I want price adjustment for multiple items. Price adjustment&nbsp;execution does not support multiple items at the same time. Each item must be processed individually for a price match. Related Articles Order Pricing - Proration &nbsp;