# Configuration

**Permalink:** printing-configuration
**Content Length:** 9,285 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:36:11.533692

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Inventory & Fulfillment&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Order Fulfillment&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Printing ››Configuration Printing Configuration Silent thermal printing of shipping and return labelsUIs and Entities Silent thermal printing of shipping and return labels By default, Manhattan Active Omni® Store Inventory & Fulfillment requests and generates shipping and return labels (if configured)&nbsp;in the PNG or PDF format and then collates the respective package's packing slip with it to generate a collated document which is previewed as a PDF file and printed using the applicable platform's innate printing capabilities.&nbsp; Optionally, a retailer may enable silent thermal printing of shipping and return labels using Zebra Desktop series thermal printers which support TCP / IP protocol. When enabled, for all the functions which involve printing, namely, Pack Shipments, Store-initiated Transfers, Pullback & Transfers, and Document Reprint, the labels are silently printed using the configured thermal printer(s) for the logged-in store while the packing slip is still previewed as a PDF document and printed using the applicable platform's printing capabilities. To enable thermal printing, follow the following steps: Copy the required profile purpose Ensure that the purposes listed below have been copied from the base profile to your&nbsp;custom profile. Profile Purposes to copy from base to custom profile dvc::deviceManagementConfigurations Configure the label printers Configure store-specific label printers using the Label Printers MUP UI. Currently, only thermal printers can be configured using this UI. Consequently, the Peripheral Device drop-down list comprises only one option, i.e., Thermal Printer. At least one thermal printer needs to be configured for a store for label thermal printing to come into effect. If no thermal printers are configured for a store, it will continue to preview and print labels as a collated PDF file using standard document printers. The MUP UI mandates input of Store ID, Printer ID, Peripheral Device, IP Address, and Port fields. Store ID is used to define the Location ID of the store for which the printer is being configured. The Printer ID happens to be the unique identifier&nbsp;of the printer. The IP Address and the Port are required to establish connectivity to the printer in line with the TCP / IP protocol. Optionally, store operations may also define the printer name and sequence. In the event that a store has more than one thermal printer, the sequence can be used to determine the order in which the printers configured for a particular store are&nbsp;enlisted in the Store app "Settings". The Printer Name is a localizable field which is translated and displayed as per the logged-in user's locale in the Store app. If Printer Name is not configured for a printer, then its Printer ID is displayed in the Store app. While the UI has required field validations built into it, the Store operations team is responsible for ensuring the completeness and the correctness of the printer configurations so that a successful connection can be established.&nbsp; Configuration Name: Label Printers Assign the required permission to the store associate Assign the stipulated permission to at least one of the roles of the required store users. Override store default thermal printer in Store app (optional) By default, labels are released to the thermal printer in the store with the lowest sequence number. If sequence numbers were not configured,&nbsp;the first printer from the list is chosen. If the device should print to a printer other than the default, the thermal printer can be overridden from the&nbsp;"Printer" drop-down in the "Fulfillment" tab of the Store app' "Settings". Once saved, this printer selection is persisted on the device for future label printing. This selection is retained through login/logout cycles until the store selection is changed, or the Store app is re-installed. Configuration Name: Store app Settings --&gt; Fulfillment --&gt; Printer Note: The logged-in user needs to have the required&nbsp;permission&nbsp;and at least one thermal printer needs to be configured for the logged-in store for them to be able to view the "Printer" drop-down list in the Fulfillment tab of the Store app's Settings. Note: As thermal printing is not supported on browsers, the Printer drop-down list is not displayed in browsers even if the required configuration is in place.&nbsp; Note:&nbsp;Manual intervention is needed from the store associate or store operations if the selected printer goes out of order; no systemic fallback happens to any other printer. The following options exist to continue store operations: 1. Store associates may select another functioning thermal printer using their Store app Settings to reprint the failed labels 2. If no other thermal printer is installed in the store, the retailer's store operations team is&nbsp;required to delete the malfunctioning printer configuration from the Label Printers as soon as possible so that thermal printing at the affected store is disabled and all subsequent label printing requests are executed using standard document printers available in the store. 3.&nbsp;Currently, MA Store Inventory & Fulfillment does not support reprinting of labels originally generated in the ZPL format using document printers. UIs and Entities The configuration UIs mentioned in this document are listed in the following table,&nbsp;along with information to&nbsp;navigate&nbsp;to the API documentation. UI Name Component Group Seed Data Present? Seed Data Profile Label Printers Device Management Managed Devices Yes Base