# Store UI Extensibility 

**Original Permalink:** proactive/uiextensibility/store
**Safe Filename:** proactive__uiextensibility__store
**Content Length:** 8,527 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:23:39.102444

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Administrator Tools&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan ProActive®&rsaquo;&rsaquo;User Interface Extensibility ››Store UI Extensibility Store UI Extensibility Manage Store UI extensions from&nbsp;ProActiveHTML Layer Extensions&nbsp;TS Layer ExtensionsDiscovery Mode&nbsp;Navigation&nbsp;Extensions&nbsp; The Store UI supports customer-specific requirements where customers can extend the base user interface. The Store UI has pre-defined hooks in the form of simple and complex extensions. In simple extensions, customers can add attributes, buttons, custom menus, hide/disable the menu, etc., while&nbsp;the complex extensions allow customers to&nbsp;write their own logical code in between the base execution flows. Manage Store UI extensions from&nbsp;ProActive A UI developer creates&nbsp;a new Extension Pack&nbsp;in&nbsp;ProActive&nbsp;and selects the UI extensions&nbsp;option&nbsp;to&nbsp;navigate to the Store application. ProActive&nbsp;launches the Store application in&nbsp;the browser view with the Manhattan ProActive&nbsp;designer&nbsp;toolbar.&nbsp;The Store application URL is mapped with the extension pack ID and version number. A UI developer can shift the&nbsp;Manhattan&nbsp;ProActive&nbsp;designer&nbsp;toolbar using the reposition icon. The help page/documentation for&nbsp;extension&nbsp;capabilities can be accessed by tapping the Help (?)&nbsp;icon. Store UI allows users to add two types of extensions:&nbsp; HTML Layer Extensions&nbsp; TS Layer Extensions Note: It is recommended to use the Proactive UI to navigate to the developer mode and not to use the &quot;?developermode=true&quot; added to the URL to access the extensions.&nbsp; HTML Layer Extensions&nbsp; The store UI&nbsp;shows the HTML layer extensions on the screens.&nbsp;A&nbsp;UI developer can invoke these extensions based on the organization&#39;s requirements.&nbsp;&nbsp; When adding a&nbsp;new&nbsp;extension,&nbsp;the extension popup window with the selected extension pack ID is shown below the screen ID.&nbsp;When adding the new extension&nbsp;on the screen, the&nbsp;extension gets mapped with an extension pack ID and is shown in the right-hand side panel under the selected section.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; If any other extensions are&nbsp;already deployed&nbsp;for the selected screen, then those extensions&nbsp;are&nbsp;shown in the deployed section on&nbsp;the right-hand side panel along with the extension pack ID.&nbsp;A UI developer can see these&nbsp;extension&nbsp;details but&nbsp;cannot&nbsp;do any modifications. Once&nbsp;the extensions have been added, clicking&nbsp;on the Save button saves the record in ProActive. In the&nbsp;Manhattan&nbsp;ProActive&nbsp;designer toolbar, it enables the preview mode to view the actual&nbsp;representation&nbsp;of the extension. TS Layer Extensions Manhattan&nbsp;ProActive&nbsp;designer toolbar shows the&nbsp;&ldquo;More&rdquo; option where UI developers can see the list of inline extensions&nbsp;for the&nbsp;selected screen.&nbsp;Inline extensions which are not tied to any specific page are shown on the HOME page. The selected inline extension&nbsp;shows the business description and initiation steps, which are also saved in an ASCII doc file. In the inline extension&nbsp;popup,&nbsp;users have to&nbsp;enter the URL of the custom code to execute the inline extension. Adding resources for the inline extension is a non-mandatory field. Note: UI&nbsp;developers&nbsp;can select only one Inline extension at a time. Discovery Mode&nbsp; A UI developer&nbsp;can&nbsp;initiate the discovery mode from the inline extension developer mode popup. In&nbsp;discovery mode,&nbsp;they&nbsp;can see the initiation steps by tapping on the (i) icon.&nbsp; When a UI replicates the inline extension in the discovery mode,&nbsp;it shows the extended discovery mode developer popup. It allows users to learn more about the selected inline extension, including&nbsp;the business description, along with the function name, input, and output values.&nbsp; The input value shows&nbsp;data that&nbsp;has to be sent to the custom code, and the output value can be either a Boolean value or data object or fire and forget (i.e.&nbsp;no output). For fire and forget, the output will be shown as N/A. In&nbsp;discovery mode, users can copy the function name, input, and output values for future reference.&nbsp;The discovery mode option is available only in the browser and not on the devices. Navigation&nbsp;Extensions&nbsp; Manhattan&nbsp;ProActive&nbsp;Designer shows the list of navigation extensions based on the store application screen.&nbsp;A UI developer&nbsp;can configure the base page navigation or custom page navigation using the navigation extension developer popup.&nbsp; For the base page navigation,&nbsp;users have&nbsp;to&nbsp;provide the base page&nbsp;ID;&nbsp;for&nbsp;custom page navigation, provide the custom page URL and title of the custom page. Adding titles for&nbsp;custom pages is an optional&nbsp;field. The UI would then navigate to the base or custom page when the navigation extension is executed.