# Digital Self-Service UI Extensibility 

**Original Permalink:** proactive/uiextensibility/digitalselfservice
**Safe Filename:** proactive__uiextensibility__digitalselfservice
**Content Length:** 6,186 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:23:40.089711

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Administrator Tools&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan ProActive®&rsaquo;&rsaquo;User Interface Extensibility ››Digital Self-Service UI Extensibility Digital Self-Service&nbsp;UI Extensibility&nbsp; &nbsp; Accessing ProActive for Digital Self-ServiceImplementing Extension PointsPreviewing Extension PointsDeploying Extension Points to ProductionExtension TypesLabelsHiding&nbsp;Base Panels Digital Self-Service&nbsp;UI provides pre-defined hooks&nbsp;to customize the user interface (e.g. add an attribute, hide a panel). Limited UI extension points are provided. Follow the steps below to view available extension points. Accessing ProActive for Digital Self-Service To access ProActive, select the ProActive option from the main menu. ProActive is accessed by the System Admin user within Manhattan Active Omni. In order to access the Digital Self-Service pages within an organization, system admin users must have access to the organization with a primary organization set to System. Implementing Extension Points To navigate to the Digital Self-Service UI in Developer Mode, use the application menu to access ProActive. When you select&nbsp;the Extension Pack option, available Extension Packs are displayed. Once an Extension Pack is added to ProActive, navigate to the UI Extensions &gt; Digital Self-Service. This launches the&nbsp;Digital Self-Service landing&nbsp;page, prompting you&nbsp;to select a Digital Self-Service feature and input order ID and organization to load the associated page. Upon clicking &quot;Launch Page&quot;, the feature page is launched in Developer Mode for the extension pack ID and version number. Follow the UI prompts along with the implementation details below to add extension points. Upon clicking &#39;Add&#39; in the UI, extension points are&nbsp;displayed on the right side in the &#39;Available Extensions&#39; section. Saved extensions can be deleted within this panel. Upon clicking on &#39;Save&#39;, extension points are saved in the database for this extension pack. Previewing Extension Points When in Developer Mode, use the &#39;Preview&#39; toggle atop the Digital Self-Service UI to preview all extension points for the given extension pack. Deploying Extension Points to Production Follow the instructions in the ProActive guides&nbsp;to test extension points in staging and export. After importing an extension pack into production, you can preview the changes in Developer Mode before deploying in production. Extension Types This section describes the different types of extensions which can be added to the Digital Self-Service UIs. Note: Currently, Digital Self Service UI extensibility supports only label type for field extension out of the box.&nbsp;Other field types like text box, drop-down, date, check box, and table&nbsp;are not supported. Labels Add a read-only text label within the base panel. For example, in the Order Cancellation confirmation summary&nbsp;panel, display the additional disclaimers about item pricing and discounts using this configuration. Align the label/value combination in a row or column and&nbsp;style as per your requirements. The static label can be localized by ensuring the key-value pairs are present in the consul under the following location: https://&lt;kvstorehost&gt;&gt;//kv/localization/com-manh-cp-selfservice/ma-extension/en/ Hiding&nbsp;Base Panels Base panels can be hidden. For example, we can hide&nbsp;the Return In Store&nbsp;panel in the Return item selection screen.&nbsp; Note: In DSS, configuring UI extensions is possible only through ProActive by adding extension packs.