# Extension Pack Builder

**Original Permalink:** proactive/extensionpackbuilder
**Safe Filename:** proactive__extensionpackbuilder
**Content Length:** 23,093 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:22:49.186590

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Administrator Tools&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan ProActive® ››Extension Pack Builder Extension Pack Builder &nbsp; OverviewExtension&nbsp;Packs&nbsp;Builder&nbsp;&nbsp;Profile-Based DeploymentView Sampling Data by ProfileRegister API DefinitionsComposite APIsDatabase Extensions&nbsp;User ExitsEventsFile ExtensionsFile ExtensionsLabels and ReportsLocalizationReponse TemplatesUI ExtensionsOmni&nbsp;Desktop EditorSupply Chain Planning Desktop EditorAPI RouterConfigure CDNRegister Trusted URLDeployment&nbsp;Manage Deployment&nbsp;Versioning&nbsp;Multiple Environment SupportExtension Pack StatusesExisting Customer Extensions Overview The Extension Pack Builder is an easy-to-use UI&nbsp;that will walk you through the steps needed to create an extension.&nbsp;&nbsp; To access the builder, select the 'Extension Packs' section from the Manhattan&nbsp;ProActive® homepage and then click either 'Add New' button to add a new extension pack&nbsp;or 'Edit' to edit an&nbsp;existing extension pack from the list. &nbsp; Extension&nbsp;Packs&nbsp; Extension packs allow&nbsp;you to provide a functional name and description for&nbsp;extension(s) involved in achieving a certain business outcome. Extension packs may contain one or more extensions or any combination of extension types.&nbsp;For example, you may have an overall goal of implementing a custom address validation service. Part of accomplishing that is to add a button on your UI to make a call to validate&nbsp;addresses entered in the UI;&nbsp;next, you will need to set up the address validation service, and finally, you may want to store the&nbsp;address confirmation or&nbsp;correction inside a custom field within your database. Each of these related elements (UI Extension, Backend Service Extension, and Entity Extension) can&nbsp;be configured in&nbsp;Manhattan&nbsp;ProActive®&nbsp;and bundled together in an extension pack called “Address Validation”. &nbsp; Builder&nbsp;&nbsp; Each type of extension (User Exit, Event, Entity, UI) contains steps and configurations specific to their variables. Using drop-down selections and searches, you can easily find and set the values needed for your use case. The extension pack main page also displays completed and in-progress extension packs&nbsp;in a consolidated&nbsp;list. This&nbsp;list&nbsp;contains actions such as&nbsp;Edit, Delete, and Add, to help manage your extension packs&nbsp;as needed.&nbsp; Between the steps, you will find&nbsp;Save & Continue&nbsp;and&nbsp;Finish&nbsp;buttons. Save & Continue&nbsp;will save your progress as you proceed through the builder. Finish&nbsp;will move&nbsp;your extension pack to&nbsp;'Ready to Deploy' status. You may continue making changes to&nbsp;extension packs before deployment, even while the extension pack is in&nbsp;'Ready to Deploy' status. Profile-Based Deployment When specifying the extension pack details such as name and description, you can define which profiles the extension pack should be deployed with. You can select one or more profiles based on the profile name and organization&nbsp;combinations of your choice. Different extensions can be deployed to different profiles to suit the business needs of the organization. &nbsp; View Sampling Data by Profile Sampling provides you with real-time snapshots of data captured during the execution of an extension handler. Before viewing these samples, an extension handler must be created and deployed, thus the extension pack should be in a "Deployed" state. Profiles can now be selected when viewing Sample Data in the Configurator for a particular extension handler - Composite APIs, User Exits, Events. This feature allows you to view data samples of the extension handler linked to each specific profile. To configure the profiles, perform the following steps: Enable sampling, then execute the deployed extension. View the extension pack and set the profile for which you want to examine the sampling data. Next, view the sample data. When you select “View Samples”, a modal will pop up to show details of your sample. If your extension handler has multiple services, you can click through the samples for each service to check the payloads. &nbsp; Register API Definitions You can register an API definition to connect to an external service or other Manhattan Active component APIs within the extension pack.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Composite APIs A Composite API can also be configured within the extension pack. This is a type of API Definition that functions as a reusable extension handler. When you have an identical workflow within different extension handlers, you can simplify those flows into a single extension handler that will be called a composite API. When invoked, the composite API will call the extension handler that initiates the workflows attributed to it.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Database Extensions&nbsp; Database extensibility provides the ability to add customer-specific attributes to base tables (or entities). Additional indexes can also be configured for component entities.&nbsp; &nbsp; User Exits User Exits are pre-built, natural exits that have been built to allow you to easily configure integrations or APIs that are external to the Manhattan application.&nbsp; &nbsp; Events Events configured in the extension pack use pre-built, natural exits (extension points) that Manhattan has built for you to easily post asynchronous/event-based messages to a queue. &nbsp; File Extensions File Extensions provide the ability to deploy custom response templates in the application. In addition, extension&nbsp;localization can be managed. &nbsp; File Extensions File Extensions provide the ability to deploy the following types of extensions: upload files to override or extend Labels & Reports and/or Mobile Workflows in the application. In addition, extension localization can be managed. &nbsp; Labels and Reports Override labels and reports for a selected component by uploading a new template file. &nbsp; Localization Localization allows you to manage customized text for your custom extension. Specify the label key and value for each language that is supported. These translations will then be deployed with your extension pack. &nbsp; Reponse Templates Upload a custom template to indicate the fields required to meet the business needs for the specified component and entity. &nbsp; UI Extensions The UI Extensions&nbsp;page of the extension pack allows you to tailor the&nbsp;application screen experience to meet the end user's needs.&nbsp; The UI can be extended for&nbsp;Store, Contact Center/Customer Engagement, and Digital Self-Service applications. See the&nbsp;User Interface Extensibility&nbsp;topic for more information. &nbsp; Omni&nbsp;Desktop Editor Manhattan Active Omni® desktop solution&nbsp;enables you to maintain a robust set of business rules and configurations. The desktop experience pack editor is a design space to tailor the desktop screen experience to fit your end users' needs. In this space you can do things like edit and rearrange UI fields, add extended attributes, add actions, and more to a subset of configuration UIs. Supply Chain Planning Desktop Editor Manhattan Active Supply Chain Planning® enables you to forecast demand, optimize inventory and generate distribution orders in order to fulfill target customer service levels across all fulfillment channels. The desktop experience pack editor is a design space to tailor the desktop screen experience to fit your end users' needs. In this space you can do things like edit and rearrange UI fields, add extended attributes, add actions, and more to a subset of configuration UIs. API Router The API Router allows the intercepting of UI calls to extend the base framework by providing an API call to a custom API or an existing base API.&nbsp; The router override support makes possible both the ability to build system-level APIs and define overrides at the profile level. After choosing a specific Service ID, users can view and update overrides for the selected profile(s). Once the extension pack has been successfully deployed, the existing overridden values for different profiles can also be viewed in this section. The system overrides flow will display the system-level data, while the profile overrides section will show data for different user-accessible profiles using the dropdown on the right. &nbsp; Configure CDN Configure the CDN path to pull the store application UI assets with custom extensions. &nbsp; Register Trusted URL When you&nbsp;would like to call an external URL from within the Store application, you can configure a trusted URL within Manhattan&nbsp;ProActive®. The Store application will then validate the URL is trusted and permit you&nbsp;to view the page within the Store application. &nbsp; Deployment&nbsp; Another way the extension pack concept is used is in deployment. Bundling each element of an extension pack allows you to deploy them simultaneously. Deployment is initiated&nbsp;by selecting the&nbsp;Deploy&nbsp;action button once the extension pack is in 'Ready to Deploy' status. Upon selecting&nbsp;Deploy, the extension pack will first undergo pre-validation.&nbsp;If the pre-validation of the extension pack is successful, the extension pack will be submitted for deployment. If a failure occurs, the extension pack will revert to the 'In Progress' status, allowing users to address issues before attempting to deploy again. To research any failures, users should use the Extension Pack Deployment page and select the action to view the pre-validation report. This page is accessible via the Related Links&nbsp;option found on the Extension Pack list page. &nbsp; Manage Deployment&nbsp; After a successful deployment, you can find an additional action button named “Manage Deployment” which allows you to manage your deployed extensions. This feature becomes available when the extension pack status is 'Deployed'.&nbsp;It can also be accessed from the Deploy window. By clicking this button, a new page with toggleable options will be displayed. Here, you can choose to either enable or disable the extension pack for selected organizations or completely turn off the extension pack. Using the search option, you can find certain organizations. Each widget to toggle the extensions on/off&nbsp;is treated as a resource and managed by a specific grant. Therefore, different users can have access to different use cases, based on a combination of grants and authorized organizations.&nbsp;Toggles that the user does not have access to may appear with a lock next to them. Note: Please note that this change does not impact DB extensions and is supported for UI extensions only at this time. &nbsp; Versioning&nbsp; Extension packs are versioned,&nbsp;allowing you to update the different elements of the extension pack while also maintaining the history of previous versions. Each version of an extension pack can be deployed or deleted, as needed. To create a new version, select the&nbsp;Copy&nbsp;action button on the extension pack where you would like to have a new version created. You can manually edit the version number if you have a certain increment you would like to use, but the default increment will progress as 1.0, 1.1, 1.2, and so on. &nbsp; Multiple Environment Support An Extension Pack can be moved from one environment to another. If&nbsp;you choose&nbsp;to build and test the extension in a staging environment, the extension pack can be easily moved to a&nbsp;production environment. This is accomplished by exporting the extension pack from one environment and importing it into the required environment. &nbsp; Extension Pack Statuses Here are the statuses an Extension Pack may cycle through: Created In Progress Ready to Deploy Deployment Initiated Deploying Deployed Deployment Failed Rollback Initiated Rolled Back Rollback Failed &nbsp; Existing Customer Extensions If you want to view your existing backend extensions&nbsp;(such as User Exits, Events, and Entity Extensions in Manhattan&nbsp;ProActive®), a migration will need to occur. Contact your services representative to initiate a backend extension(s) migration. If you would like to modify an already&nbsp;existing UI Extension, there is a manual step you will need to take: create an extension pack with&nbsp;an extension pack ID of "LEGACY" through the Proactive® UI. Creating an extension pack with this ID will pull in your previously created UI Extensions and make them visible&nbsp;in Manhattan&nbsp;ProActive® and in Manhattan&nbsp;ProActive® Designer, if applicable. No action is necessary if you have previous extensions and do not wish to modify them.