# Getting Started

**Original Permalink:** proactive/gettingstarted
**Safe Filename:** proactive__gettingstarted
**Content Length:** 8,387 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:22:46.215271

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Administrator Tools&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan ProActive® ››Getting Started Getting Started NavigationDeveloper DocumentationDeveloper ArtifactsExtension PacksDeployment Statuses &nbsp; Navigation To access Manhattan ProActive®, open the hamburger menu of the Manhattan Active® solution&nbsp;homepage. Search for and select 'ProActive' from the menu. The Manhattan ProActive® homepage will open in a new tab&nbsp;and three sections will appear: Developer Documentation:&nbsp;Learn about the components, APIs, and Extension Points that make up Manhattan’s backend, read how-to and extensibility guides, and explore documentation on Manhattan’s API and Extension Points. Developer Artifacts:&nbsp;Use the developer artifacts to extend the Manhattan software to suit your business needs. Extend applications by downloading and extending the base app. Specify a custom API Path via the API Router or specify trusted URLs to be hosted directly in the application. View the Data Dictionary to learn more about your Manhattan software. Extension Packs:&nbsp;Build, manage, and deploy modifications and extensions to your base Manhattan software. Extension packs bundle your User Exits, Events, Entity Extensions, and UI Extensions into a deployable package. &nbsp; Developer Documentation Selecting&nbsp;Developer Documentation&nbsp;will display the following&nbsp;sections: Getting Started Extensibility Guide Featured APIs All Extension Points Developer Artifacts Selecting&nbsp;Developer Artifacts&nbsp;will display the following&nbsp;sections: Labels & Reports Extend Apps Specify APIs View UI Extensions Data Dictionary Extension Packs Selecting&nbsp;Extension Packs&nbsp;will take you to the extension pack list page. If there are no extension packs to display, the list page won't have any records. As extension packs are created, they will appear&nbsp;on the list page.&nbsp;To create a new extension pack, select the 'Add New' button in the top left corner of the extension pack list page. Several actions exist for existing extension packs, including: Editing Edit View Delete Copy Compare &nbsp; Pre-Deployment Assign Labels Deploy Live Deploy Manage Deployment &nbsp; Post-Deployment Cancel Deployment Live Deploy Details Manage Deployment Rollback &nbsp; Logs Deployment Logs Validation Report &nbsp; Import and Download Download Import - This is a header action on the Extension Pack list page. &nbsp; These actions can be shown by selecting the gray arrow on the right side of the extension pack record. Some actions may be enabled or disabled depending on the extension pack status.&nbsp;When selecting an extension pack, the actions are also available on the footer.&nbsp;Selecting 'Add New' for a new extension pack&nbsp;or 'Edit' for an existing extension pack will bring you&nbsp;to the extension pack builder&nbsp;page. This page shows the extension pack details, such as the Extension Pack Name, Description, Ownership, and Target Profiles. The left side of the extension pack builder&nbsp;contains a menu of the different extension types that can be created. These include: Extension Pack Details Backend Register API Definitions Composite APIs Database Extensions User Exits Events File Extensions User Interface UI Extensions API Router Configure CDN Register Trusted URL &nbsp; With Backend Extensions, selecting one of the above Extension types will open the step-through builders that will walk you through the&nbsp;setup for the type of Extension selected.&nbsp;Selecting 'UI Extensions'&nbsp;will take you to a list of products that have UI extensibility tools. The product-specific UI Extensibility tool will open in a new tab upon selection, showing the product UI along with the&nbsp;Manhattan ProActive® Designer&nbsp;toolbar. Once the UI&nbsp;extensions have been added, they will be saved to the extension pack you have been working in. To return&nbsp;to ProActive®, simply navigate back to the previous tab. &nbsp; When ready, select the&nbsp;'Finish'&nbsp;button found on the footer of the extension pack builder&nbsp;page to move the extension pack into&nbsp;'Ready to Deploy'&nbsp;status. You will be taken to the extension pack list page, where you will see the extension pack you are working on now in&nbsp;'Ready to Deploy' status. Edits can still be made at this point, up until the 'Deploy' action is selected. &nbsp; To deploy&nbsp;an&nbsp;extension pack, select the 'Deploy' button from the action toolbar for the extension pack you wish to deploy. The deployment will initiate, and the extension pack status will update to 'Deployment Initiated'. Deployment may take up to 15 minutes.&nbsp; Deployment Statuses After deployment is initiated, two statuses are possible: Deployed Deployment Failed 'Deployed' indicates a successful deployment. No further action is needed.&nbsp; 'Deployment Failed' indicates something has prevented the extension pack from successfully deploying. Selecting the 'Copy' action button for the extension pack will create a new version, where edits can be made to correct the issue. If the user chooses to roll back an extension pack, the following statuses will occur Rollback Initiated Rolled Back Rollback Failed 'Rollback Initiated' indicates that the rollback is in progress. 'Rolled Back'&nbsp;indicates the extension pack has successfully been rolled back. 'Rollback Failed' indicates something has prevented the extension pack from successfully rolling back.&nbsp;