# Product Recommendations in Digital Self-Service

**Permalink:** product-recommendations-in-dss
**Content Length:** 5,837 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:33:47.001591

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Digital Self-Service ››Product Recommendations in Digital Self-Service Product Recommendations&nbsp;in Digital Self-Service OverviewProduct RecommendationsConfigurationFeature ScopeHow to TestTest Product Recommendations & Annotations: Overview This feature allows retailers to display product recommendations on Digital Self-Service pages via integration with a third party recommendation engine. This can provide an opportunity for retailers to lead customers to their e-commerce site and potentially result in increased sales&nbsp;and revenue.&nbsp; &nbsp;When configured, a third party engine will return a list of recommended items, which will display the image of the item, item price, and item description for the agent to discuss with the customer. Product Recommendations The product recommendations are displayed in a panel which is displayed after the main content on different Digital Self-Service pages. Currently, this panel is presented in two categories of Self Service pages: Tracking pages : Shipment Tracking, Return Tracking Return/Exchange flow pages : Edit Size/Color page, Product Details Page, Product Recommendations listing page, Return Confirmation page. When configured, a third party engine will return a list of recommended items. The recommendations panel displays these recommended items in a carousel, which can be scrolled horizontally. Except on&nbsp;the Product&nbsp;Recommendations listing page,&nbsp;which only shows recommendations, the display is in the form of a recommendation tile matrix.&nbsp;For each of the recommendations, the following information is displayed: item image, item&nbsp;description, item price and&nbsp;annotations, if relevant. The behavior upon&nbsp;clicking the item image differs based on the parent page:&nbsp; On the Shipment Tracking, Return Tracking&nbsp;and Return Confirmation pages, the customer is redirected to the item&#39;s web-url, as configured in the Item Master. On the Edit Size/Color page, Product Details Page, Product Recommendations listing pages, the customer is redirected&nbsp;to the&nbsp;Product Details Page. Refer&nbsp;here&nbsp;to enable the product recommendations&nbsp;on the Digital Self-Service pages. Configuration Navigate to the&nbsp;Digital Self Service Configuration in the menu Select the default config and click view. Select the Details tab. Select the &#39;Enable Product Recommendations in Self Service Pages&#39;&nbsp;check box. Feature Scope Only the pages listed above&nbsp;will display product recommendations. For now, only&nbsp;availability annotations and promotion annotations will be displayed.&nbsp; How to Test Test Product Recommendations & Annotations: Enable&nbsp;the configuration mentioned above. Configure the&nbsp;recommendation and annotation configurations as explained here.&nbsp; Load any of the DSS pages which display recommendations :&nbsp;Shipment Tracking, Return Tracking, and Return / Exchange Confirmation pages. Promotion annotations will be displayed if available, no additional set up is&nbsp;needed. The &quot;deal description&quot; from the response is displayed as annotation text. For availability annotations: Save a store in&nbsp;preferences under customer&rsquo;s profile. This store should be configured as part of the location type ATC view in Digital Self-Service Configuration page.