# Product Catalog Process Guide

**Permalink:** product_catalog_process
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Store/Process & Configuration Guides/Point of Sale/POS Classic Guides/Product Catalog/Process
**Content Length:** 40,570 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:03:18.419976

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Store››Process & Configuration Guides››Point of Sale››POS Classic Guides››Product Catalog ››Product Catalog Process Guide Product Catalog The Manhattan Active Store solution provides capabilities that are vital to the customer experience within a retailer's store location. The following features are detailed below to provide information on how the application can be used to enhance the in-store experience. Product CatalogCatalog OverviewCatalog ConfigurationItem Catalog:Item Categories:RFID Inventory MapCatalog NavigationItem DetailsGeneralItem Details Options ConfigurationBusiness FlagsConfigurationsItem Image SizingWorkspaceWishlistEmail ItemsEmail ConfigurationServices Catalog Overview In traditional brick and mortar retail locations, customers were accustomed to walk in, try on, and purchase an item. With the increase in online retail selling channels, retailers are now depending more on a broader item variety with increased visibility into the individual items and their inventory. The product Catalog allows retailers to categorize their merchandise to improve navigation and let sales associates to better serve their customers. Within the Catalog, associates can browse or search for items the customer is looking for. An associate can add items to an order, set up a workspace of items the customer may want to purchase, add items to a wishlist, or email products to a customer The Items Details screen allows the associate to see the availability options for all colors and sizes within a style, as well as view images of the items and the actual color swatch. An associate can easily view if an item has availability based on the indicator icon. If the style has at least one SKU available, the indicator will be green. If no inventory is available for any SKU under the style, the indicator badge is shown as red. Note: The inventory availability information for the store and across the network is retrieved based on Availability to Commerce (ATC) View configuration. This is where retailer can control inclusion / exclusion of Items, locations participating in getting visibility. For example a retailer may choose to exclude locations which are not operational, or items which are no longer sellable, from the respective views. Refer to Configure Commerce Views for more details of ATC view configuration. Note: The retailer can also choose to hide unavailable items (items whose available quantity is zero, as derived from the ATC view logic mentioned above) within the product catalog. Catalog Configuration To build the hierarchy-based Catalog, there are 2 configurations required: Item Catalog and Item Categories Item Catalog: Within the Item catalog UI [Master Data > Manage Items > Item Catalog] is the ability to create and edit Catalogs. A catalog is a collection of categories; therefore, all the categories will roll-up to the catalog For a catalog to show in the Store Facade, the catalog must have Active = True and Default = True Multiple catalogs can be configured, but only 1 will be functional at a time Localized data (only available via API): Catalogs can be showin in different languages by configuring LocalizedData. This configuration is only available via the Create Catalog API. Note: Thumbnail image URL: This configuration is currently not in use. Item Categories: Within the Item Categories UI [Master Data > Manage Items > Item Categories] is the ability to create and edit Item Categories which will be used within a Catalog. An item category groups items together by a specific search query. For example, a category called "Outerwear" could be defined by a search string of "StoreDepartment = Outerwear". For sub-category search strings, it is preferable to add-on to the parent category's search string. An example of this would be "Vests" having a search string of "StoreDepartment = Outerwear and ProductClass = Vests". A hierarchy can be established by referencing a Parent Category ID within a category. For example. "Vests" is a sub-category of "Outerwear"; therefore, the "Outerwear" category ID will be int he Parent Category ID field. The Display Order field allows for parent item categories to be shown in a specific order on the UI. Display image URLs allow for parent item categories to have representative images. Localized Data (only available via API): Item categories can be shown in different languages with different thumbnail images by configuring LocalizedData. Since the categories are created via queries of attributes such as Product Class or Department, when these attributes are translated in order for the query to execute properly to build/show the category members, it is necessary to translate the Category 'SearchString' criteria consistent with each locale. Ex. Category Womens is built with "SearchString":"storeDepartment='Womens'. If the storeDepartment for these items is translated to French, then 'Womens' translates to 'Aux femmes'. Therefore, in addition to providing a French record translating the StoreDepartment for each item, the user must translate the SearchString attribute for each category as well, into French, like so: "SearchString": "storeDepartment='Aux femmes'". This configuration is only available via the Create Category API. If you want to use item extended attributes in the searchString, then make sure the extended attributes are indexed and added as part of "Search V2 configurations" > Item > Search Attribute Config. And use the attribute as extended.customAttribute = 'XYZ' in the searchString. Item searchable fields in the criteria SearchString query can use OR and AND operators to combine all indexed item attributes available in the item search template. To make Item attributes searchable, it must be defined in SearchAttributeConfig ({{url}}/search/api/search/searchConfig) for the Item Index entity. Out of the base few key Item fields are supported. This can be customized with other Item fields, including extended Item fields to make it searchable (Ex: DepartmentName) based on search configuration seed data. There is no limitation of special characters for SearchString query value, the value should be in single quotes. In terms of the character limitation, SearchString holds a query length of 750 characters. Catalog ID Item Category ID Display Name Display Order Parent Category ID Winter Shirts All Shirts 1 Winter Pants All Pants 2 Winter Outerwear All Outerwear 3 Winter Vests Vests Outerwear Winter Jackets Jackets Outerwear Winter Windproof Windproof Jackets Winter Puff Puff Jackets RFID Inventory Map If radio frequency identification (RFID) is enabled for the store, associates can view near real-time item inventory on a map. The inventory map displays the location of each unit of the item in the store. Units of an item located within a configurable clustering range can be consolidated and displayed as an aggregate quantity on the map to improve usability. Refer to the Store RFID Process and Configuration guides for more information. Catalog Navigation Within the product Catalog, the associate can navigate from the parent category to the child sub-categories. An associate can navigate to the various child category levels via a drop-down selection, and can navigate back to the previous level using the breadcrumbs. An associate can choose to navigate to the style level by tapping on an item, or by performing a long tap of the item. Additionally, if a customer is active, the associate will have the ability to view and navigate to a full screen view of their Wishlist. Once an item has been added to the Cart, the associate can navigate directly to the Order Summary screen for a quick checkout. Item Details General Items within a category show the associate the items at the style level. An associate can choose to navigate to the Item Details full screen, or to long tap on the item within the catalog to view additional information. The basic information displayed within the item details is: Item name and description SKU num ber (ItemID) Current selling price Inventory availability: In-store and in network Scrollable thumbnail images. These are tappable to enlarge and scroll through Color and Size options. Note: Additional attributes, as well as extended attributes, can be displayed within the Item Details page. This is achieved via Item Options Configuration. Product Class and Style are mandatory fields to be present for an item to successfully be navigated to its Item Details screen. From the Item Details, an associate can choose an available color/size option and add the item to the Cart, a ship to address fulfillment, a pickup at store fulfillment, the Workspace, an email, or with an active customer, the customer's Wishlist. If an item is added to the Cart, the associate can view a toast message (notification) showing the successful addition to their order. The toast message also allows the associate to navigate directly to the Cart. If the associate does nothing, the toast message automatically dismisses and the associate remains within the Item Details or Catalog screen. Item Details Options Configuration Retailers can configure the Item Details screen to display various item attributes in addition to (or in place of) color/size, as well as extended attributes, using the following set of configurations. Business Flags Via Omnifacade config UI, Application Configuration > Manage POS Configuration > POS Configuration > POS General Configuration > Common Config > Enable Enhanced Item Details (T/F) Primary flag to enable enhanced item attribute feature If "Enable enhanced item details" is set to True, but no Item Options are actually configured to be shown, the UI will default back to show only color and size attributes. Pre-load item availability in Item Details (T/F) Default True. This configuration determines if the network and In-store availablitity calls are made for all items within a style upon entering the item details screen. If there are performance concerns, as when a retailer may have dozens of SKUs all associated to the same style, this could be set to False. The availability calls will then be made individually, as the item attributes are being selected by the user. Watermarking of unavailable items will only occur when this flag is true. Configurations Via Omnifacade config UI, Application Configuration > Manage POS Configuration > POS Configuration > POS General Configuration Item Options tab This tab allows the user to configure the specific item options that are shown on the Item Detail screen. For example, Color, Size, StoreDepartment, or extended attributes could be included. As noted, if nothing is configured Color/Size are used by default. The following configurations can be set: Attribute - Name of configured attribute (ex. Color, Size) For extended attributes, this should be set as Extended.XXX where XXX is the attribute name. (ex. Extended.Fit or Extended.Fabric) Related Attribute - Related attribute information (ex. color image URI) Display Sequence - Order in which the attributes should be displayed in the item details page Sort Attribute - Sorting attribute for option (ex. sizeSort) Order Line Item Attribute - Refers to the item attribute in orderLine. This is required to fetch the item attributess dynamically from the orderLine to print on the receipt and should be populated with the name of the orderLine attribute, ex. use ItemSize if orderLine>ItemSize is desired on the receipt. Extended attributes will only print on the receipt only when orderLine has the extended attribute saved. If a given extended attribute (ex. extendedFit) is not also saved to an orderline, it cannot be printed on the receipt. Display as Dropdown - Provides configuration capability for the retailer to display the attribute(s) as tiles or dropdown within the UI. Display Name - Provides the retailer the ability to set the UI attribute label to any text they choose. This is especially useful for extended attributes which are set as "Extended.Fabric". They can now be displayed as "Fit" or "Fabric" on the UI. Note: If an item does not have an attribute which corresponds to the configured list, the item details will not display that field for that item, and will instead ignore the null value. Note: If a sku within the style requires an additional attribute, and the additional attribute is not configured, the sku will not be visible within the item details screen. EX: Sku123 = Small, Black, Petite, but only Size and Color are configured item options, then Sku123 will not be available for display in the UI Item Image Sizing If using Cloudinary to store item images, the UI sends the request with correct height and width to Cloudinary and will get the resized image from the server response. This is to scale images according to the display dimensions. If using an external item image server, then the UI will only fetch the image from the URL as configured on the Item record. Note: LargeImageURI are used in Call center application. Store uses SmallImageURI, colorImageURL and MediaImageURI in the media entity for more item images in product details page. POS does not recommend the exact resolution but the ratio instead. recommended image ratio is 1:1, as it means different for device screen types i.e. Tab vs Handheld vs larger form factors. Workspace The Workspace allows an associate to virtually gather items for a customer that they may want to purchase. Associates can set up a workspace for an upcoming client's appointment, or they can choose to use it as a space to add items that a current customer is unsure if they wish to purchase. The Workspace can be placed within the Waiting Room so that the user can assist other customers if needed. Wishlist Clienteling within Active Omni provides the ability to get the consolidated wishlist of the customer, across all channels. An item can be added to the active customer's Wishlist from the Item Details screen. Item from the Wishlist can be moved to Cart if the customer decides to buy them. If a customer is active, the Wishlist is displayed on the active customer overlay. Associate can choose to navigate to the Wishlist by selecting the view all option. Email Items When working within the Catalog, the associate can choose to email one or more items to an existing customer or a guest. Additionally, the associate can also manually type in an email address if they choose to (Collect Opt-in Preference must = False for guests to be emailed) Emails can be initiated from the Item Details screen, the Workspace (View All screen) and the view all Wishlist (View All). The emails can contain one or more items, and allows a sales associate to have a more personalized email sent to a customer. Emails can be created in a blank form, or the associate can select from a list of templates. To send template emails, associate must create the email templates under Masterdatafacade>>Clienteling Configurations>>Email Templates. Example: New Arrival, Back In Stock Notification, Birthday Wishes etc. Templates thus created get listed on the New Email screen. Associate needs to select one of them to load the predefined template. See Email Configuration below for more detail. Email Configuration As customers require consent in order to receive text messages, phone calls, or email communications, a retailer can configure a parameter called 'Collect Opt-In Preferences'. This configuration is under [Application Configuration > Manage POS Configuration > POS Customer Engagement Configuration > Customer Interaction Configuration]. If Collect Opt-In Preferences = True, then the customer record must have the Email Opt-In parameter set to 'true' as well. This means that the customer has agreed to receive the emails sent to them from the store. If Collect Opt-In Preferences = False, then the store will not be able to collect opt-in settings for the customer record. This also allows the store to send communiations without requiring the Email Opt-In pareameter to be set to 'true". Note: The customer record opt-in settings for receiving emails, text messages and phone calls do not impact the customer's marketing settings or receiving other transaction-based emails such as an emailed receipt. This configuratino is to be used for allowing customer engagement communications to the customer from the store and the store associates. To send template emails, it is possible to configure the email templates under [Application Configuration > Manage POS Configuration > Clienteling Configurations > Email Templates}. Example: New Arrival, Back In Stock Notification, Birthday Wishes, etc. Temnplagtes thus created get listed on the New Email screen. The associate needs to select one of them to load the predefined template. Template configuration includes: Subject: Allows for a predefined subject line to be populated iwthin the Email creation UI Body: Allows for a predefined body to be populated wihtin the Email creation UI Subject/Body Editable True/False Flags: It is possible to enable or disable the ability for a store user to edit the Subject and/or Body fields. By disabling the Subject and/or Body fields, no store user will be able to edit these fields within the Email creation UI. Services The following APIs are the key APIs related to features listed above. Refer to the API documentation for additional details on each service. Service Component Group Service Endpoint Create Category Item Category /item/api/item/category/save Get catalog tree Catalog /storefacade/api/storefacade/catalog/tree/catalogDetails Get child sub-categories Catalog /storefacade/api/storefacade/category/tree/2?depth=3 Get product list Search /storefacade/api/storefacade/category/search/product?categoryId=2 Item details posservice /storefacade/api/storefacade/posservice/itembyid /storefacade/api/storefacade/posservice/itemDetails Item image Fulfillment /storefacade/api/storefacade/fulfillment/additionalImageURIs/{itemId} Add item to order Order /storefacade/api/storefacade/posservice/order/addItemToOrder Get the Device Coordinates StoreRFID Store RFID services /storerfid/api/storerfid/getDeviceCurrentLocationCoordinates Get RFID Location Coordinates by ItemId Fulfillment fulfillment-list-controller /fulfillment/api/fulfillment/fulfillment/rfid/locationCoordinates