# Product Catalog

**Permalink:** product_catalog_process-2
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Store/Process & Configuration Guides/Point of Sale/POS Guides/Product Catalog
**Content Length:** 50,312 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:02:14.200980

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Store››Process & Configuration Guides››Point of Sale››POS Guides ››Product Catalog Product Catalog The Manhattan Active Store solution provides capabilities that are vital to the customer experience within a retailer's store location. The following features are detailed below to provide information on how the application can be used to enhance the in-store experience. Product CatalogCatalog OverviewCatalog Definition and NavigationDefining the Catalog and Item CategoriesCatalog Definition and LocalizationCategory Definition and LocalizationNavigating the Catalog to Item StyleItem Search by KeywordItem DetailsItem Details Options ConfigurationColor Size ConfigurationColor/Size Configurations- DetailItem Image SizingFiltering Catalog/Search ResultsFiltering Prerequisites and EnablementNetwork Availability FilteringAttribute Filtering (color, size, others)Catalog Filter ConfigurationsVocabularySample data for "US Retailer" catalogFacet table FacetConfigDetail Table Catalog entityCategories Entity Use Cases with Sample DataUse case 1 Keyword Search Use case 2 Tops CategoryUse case 3 Accessories CategoryFacets Based on Item Extended AttributesVolume considerations for FacetsCatalog Facet Filter Troubleshooting RFID Inventory MapInventory Runner - Product RequestsServices Catalog Overview In traditional brick and mortar retail locations, customers were accustomed to walk in, try on, and purchase an item. With the increase in online retail selling channels, retailers are now depending more on a broader item variety with increased visibility into the individual items and their inventory. The product Catalog allows retailers to categorize their merchandise to improve navigation and let sales associates to better serve their customers. Catalog Definition and Navigation Defining the Catalog and Item Categories Catalog Definition and Localization Retailer may create multiple Catalogs but only one should be the active default at any given point of time.  Logically, a Catalog is a collection of Categories, each of which points via query to items which share appropriate attributes. In the Master data, retailer creates a header record in the Master data Category entity.  The configuration UI is available in Omnifacade via Master Data > Manage Items > Item Catalog. A catalog is a collection of categories; therefore, all the categories will roll-up to the catalog For a catalog to show in the Store Facade, the catalog must have Active = True and Default = True Multiple catalogs can be configured, but only 1 will be functional at a time. In the example below, sample retailer "US Retailer" has created an active catalog "US Retailer". Localized data (only available via API): Catalogs can be showin in different languages by configuring LocalizedData. This configuration is only available via the Create Catalog API. Category Definition and Localization Retailer creates categories associated to the active catalog ("US Retailer" catalog in this example) in the same entity, and can use Master Data > Manage Items > Categories UI.  Each category is a collection of items, typically defined by query. The Display Order field allows for parent item categories to be shown in a specific order on the UI. Display image URLs allow for parent item categories to have representative images. Localized Data (only available via API): Item categories can be shown in different languages with different thumbnail images by configuring LocalizedData. Since the categories are created via queries of attributes such as Product Class or Department, when these attributes are translated in order for the query to execute properly to build/show the category members, it is necessary to translate the Category 'SearchString' criteria consistent with each locale. Ex. Category Womens is built with "SearchString":"storeDepartment='Womens'. If the storeDepartment for these items is translated to French, then 'Womens' translates to 'Aux femmes'. Therefore, in addition to providing a French record translating the StoreDepartment for each item, the user must translate the SearchString attribute for each category as well, into French, like so: "SearchString": "storeDepartment='Aux femmes'".  This configuration is only available via the Create Category API. If you want to use item extended attributes in the searchString, then make sure the extended attributes are indexed and added as part of "Search V2 configurations" > Item > Search Attribute Config. And use the attribute as extended.customAttribute = 'XYZ' in the searchString. In the example below, retailer has created Two main categories Womens and Accessories Two subcategories within Womens which are Tops and Dresses One sub-subcategory within Tops which is Tunics and Shirts Navigating the Catalog to Item Style On the Catalog application screen, the associate can navigate the hierarchy from the parent category to the child categories and sub-categories. The Catalog can be navigated to lowest level which is Style. Drilling in to Style shows the Items Details screen which  allows the associate to navigate those specific itemIds (SKUs) in that style, based on distinguishing attributes within the shared style.  Currently only Color and Size attributes are supported. From those SKU results, an associate can add items to an order. Item Search by Keyword Keyword search is also available from the Catalog screen. Keyword search parameters are configurable via Manage Search Configuration>SearchV2 Configurations>Items Different item attributes can be configured as searchable and assigned different weighting factors (relevancy scores) Item Details From the list of Item Styles shown from Search or Catalog Navigation, user can select one Style and drill into the Item Details, which allows navigation within the Style to different individual ItemIds (SKUs) within that style. The basic information displayed within the item detail screen is: Item name and description of the first SKU within the style to be shown SKU number (ItemID) Current selling price Inventory availability: In-store and in network The order type to which this item is configured to be added - Store Purchase, Store Pickup, Ship To Address Thumbnail Images of the item Color and Size options, by which the user can navigate to different SKUs within the style. An icon on the item image that allows the user to add the item to a Wishlist for the active customer. Note: The inventory availability information for the store and across the network is retrieved based on Availability to Commerce (ATC) View configuration. This is where retailer can control inclusion / exclusion of Items, locations participating in getting visibility. For example a retailer may choose to exclude locations which are not operational, or items which are no longer sellable, from the respective views. Refer to Configure Commerce Views for more details of ATC view configuration. From the Item Details display, an associate can choose available color/size options to navigate from the first itemId shown to other specific itemIds within the style, and add a specific itemId to the Cart directly as Pay and Carry, or a ship to address fulfillment, a pickup at store fulfillment or (with an active customer), the customer's Wishlist via the heart icon. Note: Such items are associated to the active customer's Wishlist but the Wishlist is currently not available as a separate view for the customer outside of the Classic flow. The Add to Store Purchase function on the Item Details will display the current logged in store for the user by default. The inventory in the specific store and across the network is displayed on the item details screen. In the Add to Store Pickup option, the user has the ability to set the location for pickup. When the Store Pickup is selected, the application displays a popup with the search criteria as the logged in store's zip code. Users can enter the desired zip code and filter the results for the stores. There is an option to filter the stores based on the radius that can be selected from the dropdown. This radius takes into consideration the entered zip code and checks for the nearby store based on the selected radius and returns with the availability. Further, users can select the pickup person details and proceed to add the item to the Cart. Similarly, the users can create Ship To Address orders by selecting the option on the Item Details. The application displays a popup to enter the shipping address and method for the specific item. Once entered user can continue to add the item to the Cart to process and make the payment. More details on the order processing can be found in the POS Selling Guide. Note: Additional attributes, as well as extended attributes, can be displayed within the Item Details page extensibly via the ProActive designer. Product Class and Style are mandatory fields to be present for an item to successfully be navigated to its Item Details screen. Item Details Options Configuration Retailers can configure the Item Details screen to display color/size attributes using the following set of configurations. Note: The following business flags are currently not functional and have been deprecated.  Omnifacade config UI, Application Configuration > Manage POS Configuration > POS Configuration > POS General Configuration > Common Config > Enable Enhanced Item Details (T/F) and Pre-load item availability in Item Details (T/F) Color Size Configuration Omnifacade Config UI > Application Configuration > Manage POS Configuration > POS Configuration > POS General Configuration This currently works only for base item color and size attributes, from the item master. Allows users to configure whether the item color and/or size is shown on the Product Detail page the order of fields (color/size) and choose whether the fields scroll vertically or horizontally. By default for new customers adopting the base profile, base configuration data is seeded as follows: Color and Size are both configured to appear. Color is shown first followed by size Both display as horizontal Color/Size Configurations- Detail POS General Configuration > Item Options Attribute The name of the attribute to display from the Item Master record (ex. Color, Size). Related Attribute Only relevant at this time for COLOR attribute.  Used for the ColorImageURI which will represent the 'swatch' shown for each color. The swatch itself is retrieved from Item Master ColorImageURI field. If this is not populated in the Item Master record for given item, the swatch is shown empty with no color sample. If this is configured as null, swatches are not shown for any items. Display Sequence The order in which attributes will display on the Item Details page. (ex. 1,2,3,4) Sort Attribute Defines which property from Item Master is used to sort the color or size (ex. SizeSortSequence, ColorSortSequence). Order Line Item Attribute Links the attribute to the order line, so it can be fetched dynamically and printed on receipts. For example, use ItemSize if you want the size to print on the receipt. Display as Dropdown Choose true or false whether to show attributes as vertical dropdown or horiztonal scroll True: enables vertical dropdown False: default configuration - horizontal scroll Display Name Customize the label displayed for each attribute on the UI. For example, the Color attribute can be configured to display with the label "Hue" Note: Previously, other base and extended item attributes could also be configured to display on Item Details via the POS General Config>Item Options configurator.  This is no longer supported - please use ProActive extensibility for POS to expose these if/as desired. Item Image Sizing If using Cloudinary to store item images, the UI sends the request with correct height and width to Cloudinary and will get the resized image from the server response. This is to scale images according to the display dimensions. If using an external item image server, then the UI will only fetch the image from the URL as configured on the Item record. Note: LargeImageURI are used in Call center application. Store uses SmallImageURI, colorImageURL and MediaImageURI in the media entity for more item images in product details page. POS does not recommend the exact resolution but recommended image ratio is 1:1, which will work adequately for various device screen types i.e. Tab vs Handheld vs larger form factors. Filtering Catalog/Search Results Filtering Prerequisites and Enablement To enable this functionality, The customer environment must be running Search V2.  This functionality will call an API for both Search and Catalog navigation which is only compatible with Search V2. POS Store Config>Store Common Config> Use Catalog Filters must be set to "true". User must have the correct grant to view the new FILTERS option. When the above conditions are correctly present/enabled, Filters Function will be shown with Item Styles displayed following Category navigation or a Keyword Search There are two types of filtering available - Network Availability filtering (always available when Filters are configured) and Attribute filtering (depends on retailers' item data and Facet configurations). Network Availability Filtering Regardless of any other Attribute Filtering which may be configured, the initial Filter criterion is always AVAILABILITY. Via the FILTERS option, shown with each Category and following each Keyword Search, the user can switch on the fly between viewing ALL ITEMS or AVAILABLE items. AVAILABLE items are items whose network availability is > 0 . ALL ITEMS will show all matching products, regardless of network availability. The inventory availability information for the store and across the network is controlled based on Availability to Commerce (ATC) View configuration. This is where retailer can control inclusion / exclusion of Items, locations participating in getting visibility. For example a retailer may choose to exclude locations which are not operational, or items which are no longer sellable, from the respective views. Refer to Configure Commerce Views for more details of ATC view configuration. Note: The legacy configuration POS Store Config> Store Common Config > Hide Unavailable Items (T/F) which previously globally controlled whether unavailable items were hidden or shown now only controls the initial default setting for this AVAILABLE on the fly switch - since user can switch from one option to another. Attribute Filtering (color, size, others) In addition to the Availability filter,  the retailer can define how users can further limit the styles shown. For example, user may choose to filter those styles resulting from Category navigation or from Keyword search, and have only certain Brands and/or Sizes shown. Further filter data setup is required for this feature to be useful.  See Catalog Filter Configurations below Catalog Filter Configurations Vocabulary Facet - the filter linked to an item attribute which allows user to limit search or category displayed results. For example if the retailer wishes users to be able to filter a category list of item styles by Brand="Nike", then the item attribute "Brand" is a facet. Facet Config - a collection of facets which can be associated to a catalog or category, allowing retailer to use different facet filter collections appropriate to different categories of items. For example, a retailer may wish to allow Womens-Tops to be filtered by Color and Size, but Accessories to be filterable only by Brand. Each of these is configurable via a MUP UI via Master Data > Manage Items > Facet Configuration and are only relevant if Filtering is enabled. After defining Facets and grouping them into specific Facet Configs, the retailer links each Catalog and Category to the appropriate Facet Config collection. Sample data for "US Retailer" catalog Facet table FacetId (link to item master field) FacetName (screen label) SortAttribute Note - Item Master data reference Brand Brand Points to Item.Brand field, no sequencer Color Color ColorSortSequence Points to Item.Color and Item.ColorSortSequence fields Size Size SizeSortSequence Points to Item.Color and Item.ColorSortSequence fields ItemAttributes.SizeGroup Size Group ItemAttributes.SizeGroupSequence Points to user defined ItemAttributes.SizeGroup and ItemAttributes.SizeGroupSequence fields Each FacetId should be defined against an attribute in Item Master. This could be A base attribute directly from the item master entity such as "Color" or "Size" defined simply by the attribute name. A user defined attribute configured via ItemAttributes, in which case it should be defined using ItemAttributes.<element name> syntax. In each case, the actual Facet can be associated to a sequence field.  If there is no sequence field configured, the Facet Filters will be displayed alphabetically. This retailer has chosen to associate base item Color, Size, and Brand attributes to Facet filters, and also to create a custom attribute Size Group.  This allows them to associate a variety of individual items to a single Size Group entry. For example, the retailer could populate an ItemAttributes.SizeGroup value for different itemIds for which the actual item.Size = Medium, M, Med, 42 Regular, 34x30, and 8-10 with the same entry "Medium" for each. This simplifies the presentation of the filters, since one Medium filter is easier to sort and navigate than the 6 separate specific sizes. Note: In order for this to be useful, items should have data in the fields identified as Facets.  For example if retailer wishes to batch the 6 medium sized items as described, each record in the item master needs to be populated with the appropriate itemAttributes.SizeGroup and itemAttributes.SizeGroupSequence. Note: FacetName - do not incorporate the words "and" or "or" (or AND or OR) in the FacetName.  These words will cause the facet not to be returned as expected from search or catalog navigation, as they are reserved words in the code. FacetConfigDetail Table ParentFacetConfigId FacetId Sequence AccessoryFacetConfig Brand 50 DefaultFacetFilter Color 60 DefaultFacetFilter Size 70 TopsFacetConfig Color 10 TopsFacetConfig ItemAttribute.SizeGroup 20 Catalog entity CatalogId FacetConfigId US Retail DefaultFacetFilter Categories Entity CategoryId CatalogID DisplayName SearcString FacetConfigId Accessories US Retail Accessories storeDepartment=Accessories AccessoryFacetConfig CasualTops DemoCatalog Casual Tops storeDepartment=Womens AND productClass=Tops TopsFacetConfig Note: Category filter fallback - If a category is not linked to any filter, only the AVAILABILITY filter options will be displayed for that category.  Item search fallback - the Facet Config which is linked to the parent Catalog is used by default for the products displayed as result of a keyword search.  Regardless of the category(ies) of product(s) returned, a single strategy - in this case, "Default Facet Filter" - is used for a keyword search. Use Cases with Sample Data Use case 1 Keyword Search Steps - From Catalog, user types "red" in search field.  A display of various item styles is shown matching that search User selects Filters Result - Keyword search uses the FacetConfig associated to the Catalog at highest level - in this case, DefaultFacetFilter, containing Color and Size.  Filters screen has 3 options - AVAILABILITY COLOR SIZE As each filter is applied, the displayed product list will react appropriately - selecting COLOR checkboxes Fairytale Bluebell, Indigo Gray Skyfall, and Flaming Scarlet along with SIZE L, XL, Large, 46 Long, and Petite will filter the product list to only those styles containing items which match <ANY of those three colors> AND <ANY of those five sizes> Use case 2 Tops Category Steps - From Catalog, user navigages to Womens- Tops.  A display of various item styles is shown from that category User selects Filters Result - Tops category uses TopsFacetConfig, containing Color and SizeGroup.  Filters screen has 3 options, different from keyword search example - AVAILABILITY COLOR SIZE GROUP As each filter is applied, the displayed product list will react appropriately - selecting COLOR checkboxes Fairytale Bluebell, Indigo Gray Skyfall, and Flaming Scarlet along with SIZE GROUPS Large and Medium will filter the product list to only those styles containing items which match <ANY of those three colors> AND <EITHER of those sizes> Use case 3 Accessories Category Steps - From Catalog, user navigates to Womens- Tops.  A display of various item styles is shown from that category User selects Filters. Result - Accessories category uses AccessoryFacetConfig containing only BRAND.  Filters screen has 2 options, different from previous examples - AVAILABILITY BRAND As each filter is applied, the displayed product list will react appropriately - selecting BRAND checkboxes Maybelline, Tiffany, and Omega will filter the product list to only those styles containing items which match <ANY of those three brands Facets Based on Item Extended Attributes When retailers need to create facets based on extended attributes of an item, follow the steps below to ensure proper setup and search functionality: Step 1: Add the Extended Attribute to the Item Define and assign the desired extended attribute at the item level. This attribute will later be used for faceting in the search experience. Step 2: Save the Facet Configuration Create and save a new facet that references the extended attribute. Make sure the FacetedId follows the correct naming convention: Prefix: Extended. Example: If the attribute is FitType, the FacetedId should be Extended.FitType. Step 3: Link to Any Available Facet Configuration Associate the new facet with an appropriate facet configuration, ensuring it's included in the correct search contexts or category views. Step 4: Update the Search Config Ensure that the extended attribute is listed in the search configuration so that it can be indexed and used in filtering. Note: The attribute name must always have the Extended. prefix (e.g., Extended.FitType). Step 5: Update the Response Template Modify the DefaultItemSearchv2Template to include the extended attribute in the response payload. Volume considerations for Facets See the previous discussion about using Size Group instead of Size.  Retailers should define the facets so that the results do not exceed 100 distinct filter possibilities for a given category/query.  The API is not designed to return more than 100 facets, as this amount would be far too cumbersome on the filter UI for users to navigate, and likely impact performance.  As a practical matter, this means that a retailer with thousands of distinct colors (for example) should not define "color" as a filter directly, but should group the colors into a smaller set of "color groups" or "color families". Catalog Facet Filter Troubleshooting See the Troubleshooting and Technical guide for more information. RFID Inventory Map If radio frequency identification (RFID) is enabled for the store, associates can view near real-time item inventory on a map. The inventory map displays the location of each unit of the item in the store. Units of an item located within a configurable clustering range can be consolidated and displayed as an aggregate quantity on the map to improve usability. Refer to the Store RFID Process and Configuration guides for more information.Wishlist Clienteling within Active Omni provides the ability to get the consolidated wishlist of the customer, across all channels. An item can be added to the active customer's Wishlist from the Item Details screen. The Red Heart icon on the Item image marks an item on the Wishlist for an activated customer. Currently, an item added to customer Wishlisht can only be viewed once the customer is activated and navigates to the specific item in the Catalog. However, all the Wishlist items are displayed in the Classic flow of app from the customer profile screen. An item can be added to the active customer's Wishlist from the Item Details screen using the Heart icon if the user has the appropriate grant. Inventory Runner - Product Requests For situations where a customer demands an item which is not available in the storefront but is available in the backroom and the store associate wants to keep the customer engaged while the required item is moved from the backroom to the storefront, the associate attending to the customer can request fellow associates (also known as runners) to fetch the required item for them. This not only helps the retailers deliver exceptional service to their customers but also helps them increase their overall engagement with them. Store associates can place product requests using the Manhattan Active® Omni Store Inventory Management’s View Inventory UI and the Manhattan Active® Omni Iris Point of Sale’s Catalog Product Details Page. Using the MA Omni Iris Point of Sale, any store associate who has the required permission can request a product by tapping on the “Request” hyperlink provided right above the “Add to Cart” button on the Catalog Product Details Page. This opens up a “Request Product” popup which displays details, such as the item’s image, short description, SKU (Item ID), style, color, and size, of the product being requested. Moreover, as part of the process, the store associate is required to provide the location at which the runner is supposed to deliver the requested product. The delivery location is populated as the requestor’s name by default. If the requester’s name is not configured, then their user ID is displayed. However, retailers may optionally configure Store Product Requests Locations, which are also displayed as part of the delivery location drop-down list in addition to the requestor’s name / user ID. If no Store Product Request Locations are configured, then only the requestor’s name / user ID is displayed and the drop-down list is non-editable. Once the store associate is done verifying / entering the item / delivery location details, they can tap on the “Send Request” button to create the product request. A synchronous success toast notification is displayed to the store associate as soon as the request is created. However, if something goes wrong, a failure toast notification is displayed. On successful product request creation, a push notification is triggered to all the users in the store except the requestor themselves. Any available store associate who has the required permissions assigned to them can tap on the “VIEW” button in the push notification, head on to the MA Omni Store Inventory Management’s “Product Requests” UI and execute the request on the requestor’s behalf. For more details on how the product requests are executed, refer to this page. Services The following APIs are the key APIs related to features listed above. Refer to the API documentation for additional details on each service. Service Component Group Service Endpoint Create Category Item Category /item/api/item/category/save Get catalog tree Catalog /storefacade/api/storefacade/catalog/tree/catalogDetails Get child sub-categories Catalog /storefacade/api/storefacade/category/tree/2?depth=3 Get product list (no filtering enabled) Search /storefacade/api/storefacade/category/search/product?categoryId=2 Get product list (filtering enabled) Search V2 /storefacade/api/storefacade/facetedSearch/product Item details posservice /storefacade/api/storefacade/posservice/itembyid /storefacade/api/storefacade/posservice/itemDetails Item image Fulfillment /storefacade/api/storefacade/fulfillment/additionalImageURIs/{itemId} Add item to order Order /storefacade/api/storefacade/posservice/order/addItemToOrder Get the Device Coordinates StoreRFID Store RFID services /storerfid/api/storerfid/getDeviceCurrentLocationCoordinates Get RFID Location Coordinates by ItemId Fulfillment fulfillment-list-controller /fulfillment/api/fulfillment/fulfillment/rfid/locationCoordinates