# Configuring Promotional Events Best Practices - Tips and Tricks

**Permalink:** promo-best-practices
**Content Length:** 17,135 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:35:35.099824

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Point of Sale&rsaquo;&rsaquo;POS Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Pricing and Promotional Events&rsaquo;&rsaquo;How To Guides ››Configuring Promotional Events Best Practices - Tips and Tricks Configuring Promotional Events Best Practices - Tips and Tricks Configuring Promotional Events Best Practices - Tips and TricksTips to using the Promo Configurator UI&#39;Intelligence&#39; of the Promotional ConfiguratorExamples to AvoidManaging large volumes of inclusions&quot;Local Time&quot; deals and Time Zone handlingTime zone handling on UI and backendLocal Time dealsWorkaroundsOptimizing Performance - Volume DependenciesPurge expired price and deal records when possibleMinimize the number of dealsMinimize the required logical iterations required for the promo engineAcceptanceInterfacing - loading promotions from External Systems &nbsp; Tips to using the Promo Configurator UI &nbsp; &#39;Intelligence&#39; of the Promotional Configurator The promotional configurator is not truly intelligent when configuring multiple inclusions and relating inclusions/exclusions The user is expected to be familiar with the merchandising hierarchy and the deal requirements prior to adding/editing a given deal via the Promo Config UI. Examples to Avoid A user can configure a contradictory Qualifying Inclusion like &quot;Department=Men AND Product Class=Formal Gowns&quot;, even though it&#39;s unlikely that any items will share these attributes. Similarly, the configurator will allow the user to paradoxically Exclude its own Inclusion.&nbsp;&nbsp; For example, a user can configure Qualifying Inclusion &quot;Department=Women&nbsp;and Product Class=Formal Gowns and Season=Spring&quot; and in the same deal can configure an Exclusion &quot;Product Class=Formal Gowns&quot; which would obviously defeat the intent of the deal. In similar vein it is not necessary to EXCLUDE items/categories that were never INCLUDED to begin with.&nbsp;&nbsp; Creating a deal with Qualifying Inclusion &quot;Department=Men&quot; and Exclusion &quot;Department=Women&quot; will not actually &#39;break&#39; the deal - it will still work as expected - but it will impact performance as it introduces an extra pointless logical iteration. &nbsp; Managing large volumes of inclusions In general, deals should be created with as few inclusions as possible (see below Volume Dependencies section).&nbsp; However, sometimes it may be necessary to create one deal specific to hundreds or thousands of items or styles, for whatever reason. The Promotional Events configurator allows selection of inclusions from a dropdown.&nbsp; However, this dropdown/select functionality is limited to lists of no more than 1000 items. If it is necessary to include more than 1000 items, and/or if the user is working with an item attribute with more than 1000 possiblities, use the IMPORT ITEM ATTRIBUTES option to cut and paste a text file containing a list of the items.&nbsp; If the item attribute contains more than 1000 possibilities, the dropdown will not even be available. The IMPORT list can be comma delimited or delimited by line feeds. Ex 1. - A long list of Styles with line feeds&nbsp; 15001 15002 15003 ... etc Ex. 2 - The same long list of Styles with commas&nbsp; 15001, 15002, 15003, ... etc Similar to the prior considerations about merchandising intelligence, please ensure that the list contains valid entries.&nbsp; The promotional configurator will not validate the list to reject invalid entries.&nbsp; Such entries will not interfere with the application of the deal to valid items but may make for less efficient performance.&nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;Local Time&quot; deals and Time Zone handling &nbsp; Time zone handling on UI and backend Each deal can be created with a single start date/time and end date/time. Behind the scenes this is always saved in the Cloud server as UTC.&nbsp;&nbsp; The promo config UI can be configured to allow user to either explicitly select a time zone, or, to simply default to UTC on the UI as well as the backend. Example - if user creates a deal and config UI is configured to allow selection of time zone, they may save a deal with start date/time of June 1, 2025 at 3 PM EDT. In the server, this value will be saved as&nbsp;20:00 or 8 PM UTC Functionally this is the exact same time as 3 PM EDT and the deal will start as expected in, for example, New York. If they are not configured to select time zone,&nbsp; configuring a deal to start at 3 PM will directly be saved as 3 PM UTC Functionally, this deal will start at 10:00 (or 10 AM) in EDT, for example New York. &nbsp; Note: when deals are updated via APIs/messages, only the UTC timestamp value is supported.&nbsp; Above use of Specific time zones is only relevant to the config-UI &nbsp; Local Time deals Since the timestamps are absolute, there is no way currently to specify that a deal is to start at 9 AM &quot;Local time&quot; - that is, 9 AM in New York, Chicago, or Los Angeles. The absolute UTC start time for that deal will be different times of the day in different cities. Workarounds 1. NONSPECIFIC TIMES - DEALS WITH BASICALLY START/END DATES It&#39;s very common for retailers to simply start/end deals on certain DATES, not worried about the time of day. In this case, they are more concerned that it start/end prior to store open, and not actually concerned with the specific time. A common practice in USA (similar logic would apply in Europe or Asia) is to configure the deal to start at say 4 AM US Eastern Time&nbsp;(this would be 09:00 UTC). Typically, this means the deal starts at -&nbsp; NYC 4 AM local Chicago 3 AM local Los Angeles 1 AM local And basically for the continental US it would always start before store open. 2. SPECIFIC TIMES - DEALS WITH START/END SPECIFIC TIMES OF DAY&nbsp;Occasionally retailers may want deals to start/end at specific&nbsp;time of day. In this case, the workaround would be to configure 3-4 separate deals to cover 3-4 different time zones. Example - Deal 100 is &quot;Early Bird 20% off from 9 AM to noon&quot; for US stores Create Deal 100_1 to start/end at 9 AM Eastern/12:00 PM Eastern and assign that to the East Coast stores Create Deal 100_2 which is identical but starts/ends at 9 AM Central/12:00 PM Central and assign that to Central stores Create Deal 100_3 which is identical but starts/ends at 9 AM Pacific/12:00 PM Pacific and assign that to West Coast stores While somewhat awkward, this will ensure the deal &quot;family&quot; all kick off at the same appropriate local time &nbsp; &nbsp; Optimizing Performance - Volume Dependencies &nbsp; Purge expired price and deal records when possible Both Item/Price and Promotional Deal records are date sensitive Customers should be encouraged to keep up with housekeeping Records whose date has expired should be purged &nbsp; Minimize the number of deals Leverage location groups&nbsp; - avoid creating separate deals for Store 1, Store 2, Store 3, ... Store 100 if these can be represented by a single deal for the &quot;Ohio Stores&quot; location group Related, when defining Store Location Groups, avoid 1 group= 1 store &nbsp; Minimize the required logical iterations required for the promo engine Minimize the inclusion count (items or categories &quot;included&quot; as qualifiers, targets, or exclusions) Leverage Merchandise Hierarchy Avoid inclusions like Style 1, Style 2, Style 3, ... Style 100 if you can create a deal using qualifier Product Class &quot;Tops&quot; excluding Item 50 and 51. In general, assign inclusions at the highest possible level. Avoid single item deals in general - these are really only appropriate for highly specific deals like &quot;next week Item 1 is selling for 19.99&quot;.&nbsp; Special purpose schema for these exceptional deal types. &nbsp; Acceptance Most customers have some legacy mechanism/engine for creating and transactionally assigning promotional deals.&nbsp; When implementing a new customer, ensure they have done enough acceptance testing with valid set of promotions before product cut-over. It is very uncommon for different Promo engines to always assign the exact same deal amounts every time.&nbsp;&nbsp;If nothing else there is likely to be penny-breakage difference in the logic.&nbsp; Almost always, there&#39;s not a global &quot;right or wrong&quot; deal but we need to be mindful that there will be&nbsp;&quot;familiar&quot; (legacy) deal vs &quot;unfamiliar&quot; (Manhattan engine, in this case) and the customers must be aware of, and accept or be provided workarounds, for these. The best approach when implementing new customer is Obtain a list of their deals and categorize them into basic types.&nbsp; Many customers have hundreds of deals but they all fall into 3-4 basic types. Create equivalent deals using Manhattan Promotional Configurator and demonstrate their application via the Manhattan POS (or, CS if appropriate). Start with given items being eligible for no more than one deal a time.&nbsp; This can be accomplished: By cleverly defining deals as requiring different coupons and only applying one coupon at a time Or cleverly manipulate the start/end date so only one deal is valid at a time. Following this exercise and discussion, you can get into multiple applicable deals per item by applying more than one coupon, for example, and discussions of &#39;best deal&#39; and &#39;stacking&#39; logic when&nbsp;item(s) qualify for multiple deals. General good practice &ndash; try not to create deal data in which &gt; 3,4 deals can potentially apply to the the same item, both during implementation and in production.&nbsp;Customer understanding of the &lsquo;right answer&rsquo; can&nbsp;become&nbsp;a problem. &nbsp; Interfacing - loading promotions from External Systems Retailers sometimes choose to continue to load/maintain promotions and deals in another system (ex., a legacy system) and port them over to Manhattan&#39;s promotions schema for execution by the Manhattan promotions engine. Obviously this requires a mapping exercise prior. Keep in mind the following: Updates to existing promos from external systems need to be performed during off hours and with optimum batch size determined through VPT.&nbsp; Loading promotions from external promo engines should be performed either asynchronously or using import APIs to handle the create operation in batches.&nbsp; Loading promotions from external engines requires a check whether failed promotions exist in MAO before retrying to avoid getting duplicate error during retries. This will minimize the risk of impacting stores&#39; POS performance during business hours.&nbsp;