# Promising Config Parameters

**Permalink:** promising-config-parameters
**Content Length:** 14,712 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:34:40.899952

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Enterprise Inventory ››Promising Config Parameters Promising Config Parameters Calculate Committed Delivery DateIgnore&nbsp;VAS&nbsp;Validation for Pickup at StoreLocal Distance for ATP callsFulfillment Processing TimeValidate Service LevelLocal Distance UOM for ATP callsCalculate Additional Scheduling DatesValidate VAS EligibilityAdd Days for&nbsp;LPDDRelease Cut Off Time Grace PeriodHonor Customer CalendarEvaluate Fulfillment Optimization for Orders with Ship From Location&nbsp; Promising Config Parameters enables you to set the parameters for promising such as&nbsp;Validate Value Added Service Eligibility for ATP and promising,&nbsp;Ignore Value Added Service validation for Pickup at store,&nbsp;Validate Service Level Eligibility for ATP and promising,&nbsp;Calculate additional scheduling and committed delivery dates,&nbsp;Local distance for ATP calls, and so on. Note:&nbsp;Promising config parameters are from seed data and have some default values. The&nbsp;values can be updated from Promising Config Parameters&nbsp;UI or from rest APIs. Calculate Committed Delivery Date To configure Calculate Committed Delivery Date, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu &gt; Application Configuration &gt; Manage Enterprise Fulfillment Configuration &gt; Promising Config Parameters Click Create to add a&nbsp;new config. In the Promising Config Parameters UI, enter the&nbsp;Promising Config Parameter Id. Select the Compute&nbsp;Committed Delivery Date check box&nbsp;to calculate the date by which carrier should deliver to the customers based on the working day of carrier or deliver location before RDD/LPDD. For example, if RDD is a holiday for the carrier/receiving location, goods need be delivered on the common working day before RDD. If RDD is not a holiday then CDD = RDD. However, there can be a performance overhead if enabled. Ignore&nbsp;VAS&nbsp;Validation for Pickup at Store To configure&nbsp;VAS&nbsp;Validation for Pickup at Store, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu &gt; Application Configuration &gt; Manage Enterprise Fulfillment Configuration &gt; Promising Config Parameters Click Create to add a new config or select the existing configuration to edit the details. In the Promising Config Parameters UI, select the Ignore VAS Validation for BOPIS check box&nbsp;to ignore the VAS validation in stores.&nbsp;&nbsp;It is assumed that if this parameter is enabled and a VAS is required, the order capture system is able to show the customer only the stores that supports that VAS.&nbsp; Local Distance for ATP calls To configure&nbsp;Local Distance for ATP calls, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu &gt; Application Configuration &gt; Manage Enterprise Fulfillment Configuration &gt; Promising Config Parameters Click Create to add a new config or select the existing configuration to edit the details. In the Promising Config Parameters UI, enter the local distance in km or miles. The ATP call has the ability to signal what location is within local distance of the destination.&nbsp;Fulfillment from a local location ensures carbon dioxide emissions are kept at a minimum.&nbsp; Fulfillment Processing Time To configure fulfillment processing time, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu &gt; Application Configuration &gt; Manage Enterprise Fulfillment Configuration &gt; Promising Config Parameters Click Create to add a new config or select the existing configuration to edit the details. In the Promising Config Parameters UI, select the Consider Fulfillment Proc Time check box&nbsp;to consider item, VAS, and service level processing time during earliest and latest date computation in ATP and promising.&nbsp; Validate Service Level Inventory locations can be configured to accept only certain service levels.&nbsp; To configure validate service level, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu &gt; Application Configuration &gt; Manage Enterprise Fulfillment Configuration &gt; Promising Config Parameters Click Create to add a new config or select the existing configuration to edit the details. In the Promising Config Parameters UI, select the&nbsp;Validate Service Level check box to consider location supporting that service level in the inventory location for allocation. If this parameter is not selected,&nbsp;there is no validation on the service level that the location supports. Local Distance UOM for ATP calls The ATP call has the ability to signal what location is within local distance of the destination. Fulfillment from a local location ensures carbon dioxide emissions are kept at a minimum.&nbsp;This parameter is used to configure the local distance UOM. To configure local distance UOM, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu &gt; Application Configuration &gt; Manage Enterprise Fulfillment Configuration &gt; Promising Config Parameters Click Create to add a new config or select the existing configuration to edit the details. In the Promising Config Parameters UI,&nbsp;enter the local distance UOM in km or miles, miles is used as default if unit is not mentioned. Calculate Additional Scheduling Dates This parameter controls to calculate additional scheduling dates like&nbsp;LRD OH RDD, LRD FUTURE RDD, LRD OH LPDD, LRD FUTURE LPDD, and so on&nbsp;which can be used to release the allocation in different time based on the business requirements. To configure additional scheduling dates, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu &gt; Application Configuration &gt; Manage Enterprise Fulfillment Configuration &gt; Promising Config Parameters Click Create to add a new config or select the existing configuration to edit the details. In the Promising Config Parameters UI, select the Compute Additional Scheduling Dates check box. Validate VAS Eligibility Inventory locations can be configured to accept only certain VAS.&nbsp; To validate VAS eligibility, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu &gt; Application Configuration &gt; Manage Enterprise Fulfillment Configuration &gt; Promising Config Parameters Click Create to add a new config or select the existing configuration to edit the details. In the Promising Config Parameters UI, select the Validate VAS Eligibility check box. If a VAS is present on a product or cart ATP call or on an order line, only location supporting that VAS in the inventory location are considered for allocation.&nbsp;If this parameter is not selected,&nbsp;there is no validation on the type of VAS&nbsp;that location supports. Add Days for&nbsp;LPDD This parameter allows you to release allocations close to RDD.&nbsp; To add days to calculate LPDD from RDD, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu &gt; Application Configuration &gt; Manage Enterprise Fulfillment Configuration &gt; Promising Config Parameters Click Create to add a new config or select the existing configuration to edit the details. In the Promising Config Parameters UI, enter the days to be added to RDD to calculate LPDD, if LPDD is not explicitly passed in the order during creation. Release Cut Off Time Grace Period This feature enables you to configure the number of&nbsp;minutes past the location cut off time by which you are confident the order release can still meet the committed delivery date. For example: if the cut off time is 4:00 pm and the release job takes 15 minutes to run, this parameter should at a minimum be set to 15 min. To configure the release&nbsp;cut off time grace period, perform the following steps: Navigate to&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Application Configuration&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Manage Enterprise Fulfillment Configuration&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Promising Config Parameters Click&nbsp;Create&nbsp;to add a&nbsp;new config. In the Promising Config Parameters UI, enter the&nbsp;Promising Config Parameter Id. Enter&nbsp;Release Cut Off Time Grace Period&nbsp;in minutes and click&nbsp;Save. Honor Customer Calendar This feature enables you to&nbsp;specify whether to calculate scheduling dates like Committed Delivery Date, Latest Release date, Latest Ship Date and Earliest Delivery date&nbsp;using the delivery calendar set for the destination address, if configured. By default, the value is set to false.&nbsp;&nbsp;Refer to&nbsp;Scheduling with Customer Delivery Calendar&nbsp;for more details. To configure the honor custom calendar, perform the following steps: Navigate to&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Application Configuration&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Manage Enterprise Fulfillment Configuration&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Promising Config Parameters Click&nbsp;Create&nbsp;to add a&nbsp;new config. In the Promising Config Parameters UI, enter the&nbsp;Promising Config Parameter Id. Select the Honor Customer Calendar checkbox&nbsp;and click&nbsp;Save. Evaluate Fulfillment Optimization for Orders with Ship From Location&nbsp; This feature enables you to evaluate the ATC view configuration when the order is created with the &quot;ShipFromLocationId&quot; attribute.&nbsp;Refer here for more details.&nbsp; To configure the evaluate Fulfillment Optimization when Ship From Location Id Is, perform&nbsp;the following steps: Navigate to&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Application Configuration&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Manage Enterprise Fulfillment Configuration&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Promising Config Parameters Click&nbsp;Create&nbsp;to add a&nbsp;new config. In the Promising Config Parameters UI, enter the&nbsp;Promising Config Parameter Id. Select the&nbsp;Evaluate Fulfillment Optimization When Ship From Location Id Is Passed&nbsp;checkbox&nbsp;and click&nbsp;Save.