# Publish Release

**Permalink:** publish-release
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Order Management/Process & Configuration Guides/Order Processing/Order Fulfillment/Order Release/Publish Release
**Content Length:** 42,680 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:57:24.659650

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Order Management››Process & Configuration Guides››Order Processing››Order Fulfillment››Order Release ››Publish Release Publish Release Previous I Next After the release object is created, the outbound release message is then published to the corresponding fulfillment system, which will later respond with ship, pickup, or short messages. Publishing the Release OutboundLocation ID and Location TypeRelease DestinationRelease Outbound TemplateSuppressing Release Outbound MessagesConfigurationCustomizing Release Outbound MessagesTo Include Order and Order Extended AttributesTo Include Order Line and Order Line Extended AttributesTo Include Payment Transaction Attributes To Include Customer Committed Delivery Date/Supply AttributesUploading Customized Release Outbound TemplateImplementation FlavorsRelease Payment and Item information in Release OutboundPublish release to different distribution centers separatelyEnriching the Release Outbound Before PublishingEnrich release outbound to indicate that a sale line is an uneven exchangeEnrich release outbound to include specific information for that release onlyEnrich release outbound to include ship to address extended attributesRelated Article(s) Publishing the Release Outbound Once a release is created, it is ready to be published to the fulfillment system. The outbound release message is published in json format. The fulfillment location can be configured on the Fulfillment Location Configuration UI. Location ID and Location Type Fulfillment Location Configuration can be defined for a group of locations by using location type, or for single locations by using location ID. If this configuration is required at location level, then location ID should be specified, otherwise, location type can be defined, and location ID can be null. If both location type and location ID are null, then this becomes the default configuration which is used by all locations. These are configured on the Fulfillment Location Configuration UI. Fulfillment configuration is determined based on matching location type and location ID. The possible combinations of defining fulfillment configuration are as below: Location Type Location Id Priority Default Fulfillment Config Specified Specified 1 No None Specified 2 No Specified None 3 No None None 4 Yes When both location type and location ID are specified, then allocation location ID and location type should match with the defined values to release to the configured release destination. When only location type is defined, then the allocation location type should match with the defined location type to release to the configured release destination. When only the location ID is defined, then the allocation location ID should match with the defined location ID to release to the configured release destination. When location ID and location type are null or not defined, then this becomes the default configuration that is used to release to the configured release destination. Note: When there is a tie between two fulfillment configurations; ConfigLocationId: LocationId = L1, LocationType = null and ConfigLocagtionType: LocationId = null, LocationType = DC, then the priority will be given to the ConfigLocationId, since its more granular condition. See priority mentioned above for various fulfillment configurations. Release Destination The Release Destination defines the queue location to which the release outbound message is sent. For example, a company has 1 DC using a warehouse management system, 9 stores using Store Fulfillment, and 1 store using a different store fulfillment system. If an order is released to a store using Store Fulfillment, then when an outbound release message is published, it is sent to the queue which is picked up by Store Fulfillment. If an order is released to the DC, the outbound release message should be sent to a different queue, where the warehouse management system picks up the outbound message.  The release destination is configured on the Fulfillment Location Configuration UI. Refer to example how to publish separate release for each DCs here. For each release template, the release destination is configured on the Fulfillment Location Config UI. The possible options for release destination can be configured in the Release Destination entity. Releasing to Store Fulfillment To release orders to stores using Manhattan Store Fulfillment, the following configuration is required in the Fulfillment Location Configuration UI: ReleaseTemplateName = "ReleaseOutboundBasicCustomerTemplate" ReleaseDestinationId = "Order:Release:Event:ManhattanStore" Release Outbound Template The information that needs to be sent as part of the release outbound can be configured as a template and set using Fulfillment Location Configuration UI. The release entity has a minimal set of data that is unique to the release. When the outbound release is published, the order component retrieves additional data required by fulfillment systems, such as ship-to address, customer info, or billing address, and includes it in the outbound message. Three templates are provided out of the box. The templates can be modified to exclude attributes, to include new order and order line attributes. Details of out of the box release templates below: It is recommended not to modify out of the box templates, but create a copy and modify the same. Out of the box release templates Template Description Entities Included Release Outbound - Full Release Template This template includes all order details which might be used by downstream fulfillment systems. It includes all allocation, order, item, invoicing, and payment information. To view the full template: GET: {{url}}/order/api/fwcore/responseTemplate?query="TemplateId='ReleaseOutboundFullTemplate'" Order Order Line Release Release line Allocation Order Processing Info Order Line Processing Info Order Note Order Line Note Order Line Charge Detail Order Line Pickup Detail Order Tax Detail Order Line Tax Detail Ship to Address Extended attributes from the order, order line, allocation, release, release line, order and order line process info Billing Address Payment Method Invoice Details for Release (calculated in run-time) Invoice Details for Release Line (calculated in run-time) Release Outbound - Basic Customer Template Typically used for customer orders, this template includes fewer attributes than the Full Release Template, omitting values which are not required for customer orders. It includes all relevant customer, address, invoice, and payment information which is required for customer orders. To view the full template: GET {{url}}/order/api/fwcore/responseTemplate?query="TemplateId='ReleaseOutboundBasicCustomerTemplate'" Order Order Line Release Release Line Allocation Order Processing Info Order Line Processing Info Order Note Order Line Note Order Line Pickup Detail Ship to Address Extended attributes from the order, order line, allocation, release, release line, order and order line process info Billing Address Payment Method Release Outbound - Basic Retail Template This template is typically used for retail orders.  Because these are inventory movements between company locations (e.g. DC to Store, Store to Store), this template does not include invoicing or payment information. To view the full template: GET {{url}}/order/api/fwcore/responseTemplate?query="TemplateId='ReleaseOutboundBasicRetailTemplate'" Order Order Line Release Release Line Allocation Order Processing Info Order Line Processing Info Order Note Order Line Note Order Line Pickup Detail Ship to Address Extended attributes from the order, order line, allocation, release, release line, order and order line process info Invoice Details for Release (calculated in run-time) Invoice Details for Release Line (calculated in run-time) Some fields on the release outbound, such as release total, total discounts, total tax, and so on, are calculated in the run time when the release outbound is published. These fields are not stored in the database and thus cannot be used in SCI reports. To use fields like this in SCI reports, store the data in a custom table when the release outbound is published. Extended attributes from the order/order line, payment transaction attributes, customer committed delivery date, and supply attributes can be passed to the release line if included in the release template. To map extended attributes from the release outbound to the fulfillment object, implement the Extended Release Attributes User Exit. To customize the release template, see Customize Release Template. Suppressing Release Outbound Messages If no release outbound message is required, ensure that no Fulfillment Location Configuration exists for the location. For example, if orders allocated to a dummy facility 001 are fulfilled virtually and do not need to publish a release outbound, then location 001 should be excluded from the Fulfillment Location Configuration. Export Release APIs: APIs can be used to publish the release outbound on demand. Refer to REST APIs and User Exits Configuration Customizing Release Outbound Messages To Include Order and Order Extended Attributes Release templates provide the ability to customize; to add or remove attributes from the order or order line, or a new release template can be created and configured to publish the release outbound. To add order attributes to the release outbound template, add the tag "Order" under the header and add the required attributes or objects under it. For example, here's how to add Order Capture Date and the Order Milestone object: "TemplateJson": { "OrganizationId": null, "ReleaseId": null, "Order": { "OrderCaptureDate": null, "OrderMilestone": { "ExpectedTime": null, "ActualTime": null, "MilestoneDefinitionId": null, "MonitoringRuleId": null, "NextEventTime": null }, To add  order extended attributes to the release outbound template , add the tag OrderExtednsion entity (Ex: OrderExtension1) under "Order" and add the required attributes under it. For example, Order extended attributes"TemplateJson": { "OrganizationId": null, "ReleaseId": null, "Order": { "OrderExtension1": { "Extended": { "TestColumn5": null, "TestColumn6": null, } } }, "OrderCaptureDate": null, "OrderMilestone": { "ExpectedTime": null, "ActualTime": null, "MilestoneDefinitionId": null, "MonitoringRuleId": null, "NextEventTime": null } To Include Order Line and Order Line Extended Attributes To add order line attributes to the release outbound template, add the tag "OrderLine" under the header and add the required attributes or objects under it. For example, here's how to add the Quantity Detail object: "ReleaseLine": { "ReleaseLineId": null, "OrderLine": { "ItemShortDescription": null, "OrderLineId": null, "PromisedShipDate": null, "PromisedDeliveryDate": null } } To add order line extended attributes to the release outbound template, add the tag OrderLineExtension entity under "OrderLine" (Ex: OrderLineExtension1)and add the required attributes under it. For example, OrderLine extended attributes"ReleaseLine": { "ReleaseLineId": null, "OrderLine": { "OrderLineExtension1": { "Extended": { "TestColumn5": null, "TestColumn6": null } } }, "ItemShortDescription": null, "OrderLineId": null, "PromisedShipDate": null, "PromisedDeliveryDate": null } } To Include Payment Transaction Attributes To add payment transaction attributes to the release outbound template, add the tag "Payment" under the header and add the required attributes or objects under it. For example, here's how to add Payment Transaction detail object: "TemplateJson": { "OrganizationId": null, "ReleaseId": null, "Payment": { "PaymentMethod": { “NameOnCard”: null, “BillingAddress” : null "PaymentTransaction": { "PaymentTransactionId": null } } } } Tips for customizing the release outbound template: Ensure attributes are not duplicated (if attributes are included twice, they will be listed twice in the outbound message) Remove any attributes which are not required by downstream systems If objects from other components such as payment are included (e.g. payment methods, payment transaction), then the release outbound will fail to publish if the payment component is down. If objects from other components are included, the system will not honor the template mapping for such objects, but instead will publish the entire object. To Include Customer Committed Delivery Date/Supply Attributes The committed delivery date on the release message is the most pessimistic date. If a line is allocated against both on-hand and future inventory, the release outbound for the on-hand units will have the committed delivery date of future units as that date is the most pessimistic date. However, with the below configuration in the release response template, the release outbound message will send the Customer Committed Delivery Date, Earliest Ship Date, and Earliest Delivery Date corresponding to the quantity that is getting released, and not the pessimistic dates. Communicating this information will enable the Transportation Planning System to improve carrier management, and the Warehouse Management System to facilitate more efficient shipment planning. Note: In case of merge shipment flows, the Customer Committed Delivery Date refers to the final delivery date to the end customer. Earliest Delivery Date and Earliest Ship Date refers to the date of the corresponding legs. Assumptions: • In merge-shipment flow, when shipment happens from one leg to another, Manhattan Active® Omni expects ETA to be passed in the order event. Consequently, Active Omni will calculate the Earliest Ship Date (ESD) and the Earliest Delivery Date (EDD). • If ETA is not passed in the order event, Manhattan Active® Omni will calculate the Earliest Ship Date (ESD) and the Earliest Delivery Date (EDD) assuming that ETA is the current date. • The calculation of the Earliest Ship Date (ESD) and the Earliest Delivery Date (EDD) of any leg starts from the Earliest Delivery Date (EDD) of the previous leg. The supply attributes in the release message contain nine attributes, such as country of origin, batch number, product status, inventory type, and inventory attributes 1-5. These attributes can be used for communicating the supply details with the warehouse for replenishment and inter-warehouse transfer orders, by enabling middleware to translate supply attributes to the item ID that the warehouse understands and vice versa. To add the Customer Committed Delivery Date/Supply Attributes for each unit of supply detail breakup in the release outbound message, the following attributes need to be added to the Release Response template. "AllocationInfo": { "SupplyDetailInfo": { "SupplyTypeId": null, "CustomerCommittedDeliveryDate": null, "EarliestDeliveryDate": null, "Quantity": null, "EarliestShipDate": null, "SupplyAttributes": { "CountryofOrigin": null, "BatchNumber": null, "ProductStatus": null, "InventoryType": null, "InventoryAttribute1": null, "InventoryAttribute2": null, "InventoryAttribute3": null, "InventoryAttribute4": null, "InventoryAttribute5": null } } } Examples: Scenario Configuration Reservation match and current behavior Expected Result: When I Release this order with “InventoryLocation.Ignore Receipt Time during Merge”= False Expected Result: When I Release this order with “InventoryLocation.Ignore Receipt Time during Merge”= True Non Merge Scenario Receipt Time: 1 day Processing Time: 1 day Transit Time: 1 day Current date: 04/07 OrderlinePromisingInfo.IsRequestedByDeliveryDate = True Line 1 – 1000 quantities; RDD = 4/19 Match1 – OH – 400; EDD = 04/09, CDD = 04/19 Match2 – PO1: ETA - 04/15, Qty= 100; EDD= 04/18, CDD = 04/19 Match3 – PO2: ETA - 04/22, Qty= 150; CDD – 04/25 (ETA + ReceiptTime + ProcessingTime + TransitTime). Match4 – PO3: ETA - 04/27, Qty = 50; CDD – 04/30 (ETA + ReceiptTime + ProcessingTime + TransitTime). Order.Allocation – EDD = 04/09 (min EDD), CDD = 04/30 (Max CDD) and same in the Release Outbound message. Release1 – 400 units CustomerCDD: 04/30 ESD: 04/08 (Current Time + Processing Time) EDD: 04/09 (ESD + Transit Time) Release2 – 100 units CustomerCDD: 04/30 ESD: 04/17 (PO ETA + Receipt Time + Processing Time) EDD: 04/18 (ESD + Transit Time) Release3 – 150 units CustomerCDD: 04/30 ESD: 04/25 (PO ETA + Receipt Time + Processing Time) EDD: 04/25 (ESD + Transit Time) Release4 – 50 units CustomerCDD: 04/30 ESD: 04/29 (PO ETA + Receipt Time + Processing Time) EDD: 04/30 (ESD + Transit Time) No Changes, same as left-hand side column Merge Scenario Merge Route: DC1 → Store1 → Address Current date: 04/07 Receipt Time, Processing time and Transit time each 1 day for both DC1 and Store1 OrderlinePromisingInfo.IsRequestedByDeliveryDate = True Line 1 – 1000 quantities; RDD = 4/19 Match1 – OH – 400; CDD - 04/19 Match2 – PO1 – 04/15 – 100; Match3 – PO2 – 04/22 – 150; Match4 – PO3 – 04/27 – 50; Order.Allocation – CDD = 04/30 For Store1: ( DC1 → Store1 ) Release1 – 400 units CustomerCDD: 05/03 ESD: 04/09 (Current Time + Processing Time) EDD: 04/09 (ESD + Transit Time) Release2 – 100 units CustomerCDD: 05/03 ESD: 04/17 (PO ETA + Receipt Time + Processing Time) EDD: 04/18 (ESD + Transit Time) Release3 – 150 units CustomerCDD: 05/03 ESD: 04/24 (PO ETA + Receipt Time + Processing Time) EDD: 04/25 (ESD + Transit Time) Release4 – 50 units CustomerCDD: 05/03 ESD: 04/29 (PO ETA + Receipt Time + Processing Time) EDD: 04/30 (ESD + Transit Time) For Destination: (Store1 → Address) Assumption: During Shipment, Order event ETA = EDD of the previous leg Release1 – 400 units CustomerCDD: 05/03 ESD: 04/11 (Order event ETA+ Receipt time + Processing Time) EDD: 04/12 (ESD + Transit Time) Release2 – 100 units CustomerCDD: 05/03 ESD: 04/20 (Order event ETA+ Receipt time + Processing Time) EDD: 04/21 (ESD + Transit Time) Release3 – 150 units CustomerCDD: 05/03 ESD: 04/27 (Order event ETA+ Receipt time + Processing Time) EDD: 04/28 (ESD + Transit Time) Release4 – 50 units CustomerCDD: 05/03 ESD: 05/02 (Order event ETA+ Receipt time + Processing Time) EDD: 05/03 (ESD + Transit Time) For Store1: ( DC1 → Store1 ) Release1 – 400 units CustomerCDD: 05/02 ESD: 04/09 (Current Time + Processing Time) EDD: 04/09 (ESD + Transit Time) Release2 – 100 units – CDD 04/18 CustomerCDD: 05/02 ESD: 04/17 (PO ETA + Receipt Time + Processing Time) EDD: 04/18 (ESD + Transit Time) Release3 – 150 units CustomerCDD: 05/02 ESD: 04/24 (PO ETA + Receipt Time + Processing Time) EDD: 04/25 (ESD + Transit Time) Release4 – 50 units CustomerCDD: 05/02 ESD: 04/29 (PO ETA + Receipt Time + Processing Time) EDD: 04/30 (ESD + Transit Time) For Destination: (Store1 → Address) Assumption: During Shipment, Order event ETA = EDD of the previous leg Release1 – 400 units CustomerCDD: 05/02 ESD: 04/10 (Order event ETA + Processing Time) EDD: 04/11 (ESD + Transit Time) Release2 – 100 units CustomerCDD: 05/02 ESD: 04/19 (Order event ETA+ Processing Time) EDD: 04/20 (ESD + Transit Time) Release3 – 150 units – CDD 04/27 CustomerCDD: 05/02 ESD: 04/26 (Order event ETA+ Processing Time) EDD: 04/27 (ESD + Transit Time) Release4 – 50 units – CDD 05/02 CustomerCDD: 05/02 ESD: 05/01 (Order event ETA + Processing Time) EDD: 05/02 (ESD + Transit Time) Uploading Customized Release Outbound Template Step 1 - Upload your template json to POST: /order/api/fwcore/responseTemplate/save: { "TemplateId": "ReleaseOutboundCustomTemplate", "BaseEntity": "Release", "TemplateJson": "{Your Template Goes Here}" } Step 2 - Select the custom release outbound template in the required fulfillment location configuration Note: The customized release outbound templates are organization specific and have to be created and configured for every organization, if required. If the customized release outbound template is not available in the application, the release outbound message will not be published, but the release will go through and not fail. Check Release Payment and Item information in Release Outbound to learn how to publish other objects like payment/items other than order/order line objects. To include other additional attributes in the outbound release message which are not supported out of the box, implement the PrePublishReleaseOutbound or PostCreateRelease user exit. Implementation Flavors Release Payment and Item information in Release Outbound Requirements: Include item information as part of release outbound which are currently not on order line. Implementation: Generally, if information is not available in the current release template (for example payment or item base or item extended attributes), the recommendation is to copy this information into an order/order line extended attribute and pass it down to the release. OR Implement Order:Order:UserExit:PrePublishReleaseOutbound and pass the information on ExtendedFields in case of order level data or ExtendedLineFields only. Any extended fields cannot be enriched under order or order line directly, it has to be added to ExtendedFeilds or ExtendedLineFields section only. Requirements: Include payment information as part of the retail release outbound Implementation: The retail release outbound template does not include payment, because payment information is not typically required for retail orders and making calls to payment for large volumes of retail orders can have performance implications. To include payment information on the release outbound for retail orders, options include: Add the required payment information (example, billing address) on the order as extended attributes, so that no call to payment is required. Enable payment processing in the order configuration for retail orders and use an outbound release template that includes payment. Refer to how to customize the release template to include payment attributes for retail order here. Publish release to different distribution centers separately Requirements: I would like to publish the release separately to different distribution centers. Implementation: If there is a requirement to publish release separately to distribution centers, then it is recommended to create separate queues for each of the distribution center. Please refer to the following steps to achieve the same: 1. Define a new Release Destination - Order:Release:Event:OnReleaseTo3PL 2. Extension Point - Order:Release:Event:OnReleaseTo3PL 3. Outbound Message - PublishReleaseEvent3PLMSGType (New queue) 4. Link ExtPoint to Msg Type - Order:Release:Event:OnReleaseTo3PL, PublishReleaseEvent3PLMSGType 5. Define Fulfillment Location Configuration for each DC: { "FulfillmentLocationConfigId": "DistributionCenter", "LocationId": "DC2", "LocationTypeId": "DC", "ReleaseTemplateName": "ReleaseOutboundFullTemplate", "ReleaseDestinationId": "Order:Release:Event:OnReleaseTo3PL" } Enriching the Release Outbound Before Publishing Enrich release outbound to indicate that a sale line is an uneven exchange Requirement: When an uneven exchange order is created, the ParentOrderId and ParentOrderLineId are not copied from the original order to the new sale line. When the exchange order is released, the release message does not contain this information and this is required by down stream systems to understand that this is an exchange order and is related to a parent order. Implementation: It is recommended that for such requirements, enrich the release outbound message using Order:Order:UserExit:PrePublishReleaseOutbound or Order:Order:UserExit:PostCreateRelease. Enrich release outbound to include specific information for that release only Requirement: Send only chosen order notes on the release outbound. Currently, all the order notes are sent on each release for a given order. Implementation: Exclude the order notes that are not required for the release using Order:Order:UserExit:PrePublishReleaseOutbound or Order:Order:UserExit:PostCreateRelease. Enrich release outbound to include ship to address extended attributes Requirement: Include ship to address and ship to address extended attributes on release outbound. Implementation: It is recommended to copy the ship address and its extended attributes to on order line extended attributes to be included on release outbound. Related Article(s) Mass ReleaseREST APIs and User ExitsHow Release WorksOverviewTroubleshootingRelease Grouping and Creation