# Pull Back Released Orders

**Permalink:** pull-back-released-orders
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Order Management/Process & Configuration Guides/Order Processing/Order Fulfillment/Late Order Modifications/Pull Back Released Orders
**Content Length:** 33,476 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:57:52.396202

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Order Management››Process & Configuration Guides››Order Processing››Order Fulfillment››Late Order Modifications ››Pull Back Released Orders Pull Back Released Orders OverviewPull Back Release When Payment FailsFunctional Flow for Payment FailureOrder Processing for Payment FailureCancellation Request Tracking for Payment FailureCancellation Request Integration for Payment FailureConfiguration for Payment FailureFeature Scope for Payment FailureUIs and Entities for Payment FailureServices for Payment FailurePull Back Release in an Ad-hoc MannerPull Back Release when Out of StockFunctional Flow When Out of StockInventory Updates When Out of StockOrder Orchestration When Out of StockCancellation Request Tracking When Out of StockCancellation Request Integration When Out of StockConfiguration When Out of StockUIs and Entities When Out of StockRelated Articles Overview With Manhattan Active® Omni late order cancellation, retailers can request fulfillment systems to stop fulfillment of items in multiple use cases: If there is a payment failure In an ad-hoc manner initiated by the retailer If the supply of the store goes to zero Pull Back Release When Payment Fails Here's how it works: A customer places a ‘Ship to Home’ order. Order payment is authorized and confirmed. The items are released to a store or WM for processing. The fulfillment system may have started picking or picked the items. Order payment authorization expires Order Management to retry authorization and re-authorization fails Attempt automatic retries of re-authorization failure Retry attempts are exhausted, and the payment is still a failure Manhattan Active® Omni to request cancellation of releases if the payment failure total is equal to the order total Fulfillment system cancels the release Order Management processes the response and cancels the release by retaining the allocation Recovery payment email/text is sent to customer The customer adds payment using Digital Self-Service(DSS), or CSR calls the customer to make a new payment Order is Authorized Order is released for fulfillment Functional Flow for Payment Failure Pullback release in case of payment failure Order Processing for Payment Failure A ship to home line can be prevented from fulfillment due to payment failure, leveraging the late order cancellation process. Whenever there is a payment failure on the order and the failure amount is equivalent to the order total resulting in Awaiting Payment, Manhattan Active® Omni triggers a late order cancellation request. Once the cancellation is successful, customers are notified via email/text for payment recovery. Refer here for email/text details. If the customer adds payment via DSS and on successful authorization, the order line will be re-released for fulfillment again. Refer here for mod type configuration changes required for re-releasing the order on payment status update. If the customer does not add payment within the configured number of hours, then the line will be cancelled and a customer notification via email/text is sent indicating that the order is cancelled. Refer here for cancel order configuration. Cancellation Request Tracking for Payment Failure To track the cancellation request, the order line attribute "cancellationRequestStatus" is set to "Requested". When this occurs, a release update request is generated based on the fulfillment configuration and sent to the Manhattan Active® Omni Store or any other third-party store or warehouse system. In the case of full line cancellation, the release line quantity on the request is set to zero. Cancellation Request Integration for Payment Failure The request to the Manhattan Active® Omni Store will be through rest call if the location is "Manhattan Active® Location" for location type store, refer here for location configuration details. For anything else (MAWM or External Store or Warehouse applications), extension point Order:Release:UserExit:ProcessExternalReleaseUpdate should be configured. Manhattan Active® Omni Store or other fulfillment or warehouse management applications can respond back with one of the three responses: Cancellation Accepted for Payment Failure Fulfillment or warehouse management application immediately cancels the fulfillment line. Order Management immediately cancels the release only by retaining the allocation as is. Refer here to the pipeline configuration required for the order line to move back to Allocated from Released/In Process/Picked status. The order line "lineshortcount" field is incremented to indicate that the release was cancelled so that the subsequent release can be prioritized for fulfillment. Cancellation Temporarily Rejected for Payment Failure If the Manhattan Active® Omni Store is actively picking an item, then the cancellation request cannot be immediately processed. However, the cancellation can be processed after picking is complete when the picker returns to the work station. On successful cancellation at a later point of time, the behavior is similar to Cancellation Accepted as mentioned above. Cancellation Rejected for Payment Failure If the fulfillment system rejects the cancellation, the shipment will continue to happen and CSR should call the customer to get new payment to settle the order. Note: There will be no email or text communication sent when the fulfillment system rejects the cancellation request for this feature, unlike post release order line cancellation failures. Configuration for Payment Failure To use this feature, enable 'Allow post-release cancellation' and "Prevent shipments on payment failure" configuration in the Order Configuration UI. Note: Preventing shipments on payment failure configuration cannot work independently of late order cancellation, hence it is required to have both the configurations enabled. Out of the box, when the fulfillment system processes the cancellation request, the release canceled qty is updated and the fulfillment status remains released. The order status should move back to allocated and the same can happen when ShipToHome pipeline seed data is updated for "pullbackRelease" ServiceId. Refer below for pipeline seed data for ShipToHome. PaymentFailureCancelRelease{ "PipelineId": "ShipToHome", "PickupService": [ { "FromStatus": "3000", "ComponentId": "Order", "ServiceId": "pullbackRelease" } ], "DropStatusDetermination": [ { "FromStatus": "3000", "ComponentId": "Order", "ServiceId": "pullbackRelease", "IntendedDropStatus": "2000", "Sequence": 1, "ConditionText": null, "DropStatus": "2000" }, { "FromStatus": "3500", "ComponentId": "Order", "ServiceId": "pullbackRelease", "IntendedDropStatus": "2000", "Sequence": 1, "ConditionText": null, "DropStatus": "2000" }, { "FromStatus": "3600", "ComponentId": "Order", "ServiceId": "pullbackRelease", "IntendedDropStatus": "2000", "Sequence": 1, "ConditionText": null, "DropStatus": "2000" }, ] } Once payment is added and successfully authorized, the order should be moved from allocated to released. Configure "Resubmit Pipeline" for modification type "Update Payment Status to Authorized". To enable cancellation of orders where payment is not captured within a configured number of hours after cancellation of release, specify cancel payment failed orders threshold in hours in the Order configuration UI. Feature Scope for Payment Failure If there is partial payment failure for an order, then the system will not initiate canceling release. Canceling release of a Ship To Store or Pick Up At Store is not supported. Canceling release of ShipItInstead lines is not supported. Canceling the release of a Ship To Home merge leg which is not shipped is not supported. UIs and Entities for Payment Failure The configuration UIs mentioned in this document are listed in the following table, along with information to navigate to the API documentation. UI Name Component Group Seed Data Present? Seed Data Profile Order Config Order No Base Services for Payment Failure The APIs listed in the following table are referenced in this document. Refer to the API documentation for additional details on each service. Service Component Group Service Endpoint Payment Header Payment Payment Services {{url}}/payment/api/payment/paymentHeader/save Pull Back Release in an Ad-hoc Manner The pullback release process as outlined above can also be leveraged by calling an API during alternative flows unrelated to payment failure. The "prevent shipment on payment failure" behavior does not need to be configured to use this. However, other post-release cancellation (late order cancellation) assumptions apply as outlined above and as part of the Late Order cancellation guide. This API is only supported at the release level: POST {{url}}/order/api/order/order/release/cancel { "OrderId": "CC10052", "Release": [ { "ReleaseId": "CC100521" } ] } Pull Back Release when Out of Stock Here's how it works: A customer places an order that is released to a store (any delivery method) The items are released to a store or WM for processing. The fulfillment system may have started picking or picked the items. Order management gets a notification that the supply for the store drops to zero units. This can be due to a cycle count, a store sale, an adjustment, and so on. Manhattan Active® Omni to request cancellation of releases that are not in progress yet by the fulfillment system Fulfillment system cancels the release Order Management processes the response and cancels the release and either reallocates or backorders the order. If it is a ship to address order or the first leg of a ship to store order, the full release is pulled back, and it is expected that the order would reallocate to a different location. If it is a BOPIS order, the system triggers a ship it instead flow (if Ship it instead is enabled in DSS) or backorders the units in case the store gets more inventory. In the case of BOPIS order, the pull back process only applies to the line. The pick up leg of a ship to store order is not pulled back automatically because it has dedicated inventory shipped to the store. In case of that inventory going to zero, the system would expect a short. Functional Flow When Out of Stock Pull back release if the inventory goes to zero Inventory Updates When Out of Stock When the on-hand inventory for a location reaches zero due to inventory drops, inventory sync, or movement, and there is any released quantity available, the inventory component will alert the order component to pull back the released quantity from the store. Refer here for configuration. Order Orchestration When Out of Stock An order can be pulled back from the fulfillment system and either reallocated or canceled when the supply for a given item is updated to zero. When inventory reaches zero, the inventory component notifies the order component, triggering the pull-back process. Orders that have not yet been released will not be sent to the store. Once released, orders may still be canceled through a late order cancellation process, which pulls back the released quantities. The order configuration assigns a release cancellation reason code based on the delivery method, determining whether the order should be reallocated. If configured for reallocation, the order will go through the allocation process again. If not, the order enters backorder status and will either be canceled during regular order cleanup or reallocated if inventory becomes available. The behavior differs based on the shipping method: Ship-to-Address & Ship-to-Store (Merge Leg): If any item in the release is out of stock, the system attempts to pull back the entire release. BOPIS (Buy Online, Pick Up In-Store): If one item in the release is out of stock, only that specific release line is pulled back. Ship-to-Store (Pick-Up Leg): Orders at this stage are not automatically pulled back, as they are already packed. Additionally, late order cancellation has been enhanced to reject all pull-back requests due to inventory constraints if the item is in the picking or picked/packed status. This is because, at this stage, a zero inventory update indicates a discrepancy in the inventory records rather than an actual depletion of stock, making automatic pull-back actions unreliable. Cancellation Request Tracking When Out of Stock To track the cancellation request, the order line attribute "cancellationRequestStatus" is set to "Requested". When this occurs, a release update request is generated based on the fulfillment configuration and sent to the Manhattan Active® Omni Store or any other third-party store or warehouse system. In the case of full line cancellation, the release line quantity on the request is set to zero. Cancellation Request Integration When Out of Stock The request to Manhattan Active® Omni Store will be through rest call if the location is "Manhattan Active® Location" for location type Store, refer here for location configuration details. For anything else (MAWM or External Store or Warehouse applications), extension point Order:Release:UserExit:ProcessExternalReleaseUpdate should be configured. Manhattan Active® Omni Store or other fulfillment or warehouse management applications can respond back with one of the three responses: Cancellation Accepted when out of stock Fulfillment or warehouse management application immediately cancels the fulfillment line. Order Management immediately cancels the release only by retaining the allocation as is. Refer here to the pipeline configuration required for the orderline to move back to Allocated from Released/In Process/Picked status. The order line "lineshortcount" field is incremented to indicate that the release was cancelled so that the subsequent release can be prioritized for fulfillment. Cancellation Temporarily Rejected when out of stock If the Manhattan Active® Omni Store is actively picking an item, then the cancellation request cannot be immediately processed. However, the cancellation can be processed if picking is abandoned and cancelled. On successful cancellation at a later point of time, the behavior is similar to Cancellation Accepted as mentioned above. Cancellation Rejected when out of stock If the fulfillment system rejects the cancellation (if the order is picked for example), the fulfillment will continue to happen. If there is trully no inventory and the release has been picked by mistake, the system expects a short at a later point in the fulfillment life cycle. Configuration When Out of Stock Enable "Short orders in store when supply drops to zero" in the Inventory Parameter UI and configure a default short reason code by delivery method in the "Short Order When Supply Goes to Zero" in Order configuration. Note: Pulling back release on supply update configuration cannot work independently of late order cancellation, hence it is required to have both the configurations enabled. Out of the box, when the fulfillment system processes the cancellation request, the release canceled qty is updated and the fulfillment status remains released. The order status should move back to allocated and the same can happen when ShipToHome pipeline seed data is updated for ServiceId "pullbackRelease". Refer below for pipeline seed data for ShipToHome. Feature Scope Canceling partial quantities on a released line is not supported. If Ship it instead is enabled for BOPIS lines, the system will automatically trigger the ship it instead flow for out-of-stock items. Only the releases allocated against the supply record that goes out of stock are pulled back This feature is only triggered when the supply goes to zero units. It is not triggered if there is still supply for an item even if there is not enough supply to fulfill all the orders released to the store. Because the fulfillment system has its own way of prioritizing who gets the available supply, released that cannot be served should be shorted. UIs and Entities When Out of Stock The configuration UIs mentioned in this document are listed in the following table, along with information to navigate to the API documentation. UI Name Component Group Seed Data Present? Seed Data Profile Order Config Order No Base Order cancel reason Order No Base Inventory Parameter Inventory No Base Related Articles Late Order CancellationExtend Pickup WindowChange Shipping AddressPrevent Shipment on Payment Failure