# Pullback Request

**Permalink:** pullback-request
**Content Length:** 17,681 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:29.143255

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Allocation ››Pullback Request Pullback Request &nbsp; Pullback RequestPullback WorkflowFiltersCreating a Pullback RequestEditing a Pullback RequestDetails ViewDeleting a&nbsp;Pullback RequestField Description &nbsp; There are times when inventory needs to be pulled from Stores back to the DC or another location. For example, after a season has ended, all inventory is to be sent back to DC for liquidation or distribution of inventory to outlet locations. Allocators need the ability to communicate to stores what products and quantities need to be shipped and to which location. Pullback request can be used to communicate this information in the form of an Order which is sent to the stores to be picked and shipped. This screen enables the user with a summary of how many products/styles, stores, and dollars will be pulled back based on the Pullback configuration. Pullback Selection Summary provides a summary of statistics, such as count of styles/products, locations, units, etc., which gives users a chance to confirm the statistics are as expected before approving and generating the orders. If the results are not as expected, the user can edit the Pullback config and refresh the summary statistics before reviewing and approving the Pullback. Once the Pullback is approved, orders are generated and sent to an outbound queue for picking by store associates. &nbsp; Pullback Workflow Create / Edit Pullback configuration &ndash; Specify stores to pullback inventory from, locations to send product to, and products to pullback Refresh &ndash; Deletes and regenerates Pullback Selection Summary details for specified products/styles having on hand inventory at specified stores Review & Approve &ndash; Provides popup to review pullback statistics; provides the ability to approve pullback which generates the orders Note: Pullback Selection Summary Estimated Units and Value, as well as Order Line Units, are based on the store on hand at the time a Pullback is Refreshed. Order Line units generated upon Approval of a Pullback will be the same quantities. Consequently, Pullbacks should be Refreshed just before approving to get the latest quantities. Note: Once a pullback has been approved, the same Pullback Id can be reused. Configuration must be changed, and Pullback Refreshed before the same Pullback Id can be approved again. Filters Following is the list of filters available on the screen: Description Pullback Id Creating a Pullback Request &nbsp; To create a new pullback request: &nbsp; Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt; Allocation&gt;&nbsp;Distribution Orders&gt; Pullback Request Click&nbsp;Create&nbsp;to view the&nbsp;Pullback Request&nbsp;configuration wizard. On the&nbsp;Pullback Definition page, Enter the&nbsp;Pullback Id (required field)&nbsp;and Description. Click Save and Continue. On the Store Selection Method page, select the Store Selection Method type to select a store&nbsp;from the following options.&nbsp; Full Network -&nbsp; The system will scan all the stores present in the system.&nbsp;&nbsp;The full network is selected by default.&nbsp;If the user selects this option,&nbsp;Select Stores By Attributes,&nbsp;Select Stores will be&nbsp;disabled (strikethrough). By Store Attributes - The location&nbsp;filter must have at least one Region, Climate, District, or Primary DC value. Stores meeting specified criteria will be scanned for products, with on-hand inventory, meeting the product criteria. If the user selects this option,&nbsp;Full Network, Select Stores will be disabled (strikethrough).&nbsp; Specific Stores -&nbsp;Store(s) from which inventory will be pulled back are entered. Click Save and Continue. &nbsp;On the&nbsp;Select Stores By Attributes page, Select the&nbsp;Region,&nbsp;Climate,&nbsp;District, and Primary DC from their drop-down list.&nbsp;Click Save and Continue. On the Select Stores page, enter the Location Id and click on the Search button. The Location Lookup window appears. Search location via search options, select the Location Id, and click Submit.&nbsp;Click Save and Continue. On the Destination Selection Method page, Select the&nbsp;Destination Selection Method from the following options.&nbsp;Click Save and Continue. Follow Network -&nbsp;&ndash; Inventory will be sent back to Primary DC defined on each Store location.&nbsp;If the&nbsp;user selects this option,&nbsp;Select Destination Location&nbsp;will be disabled (strikethrough). Specific Location -&nbsp;All inventory meeting pullback criteria can be sent to one location as specified by user. On the Select Destination Location page, enter the Location Id and click on the Search button, or click Search button directly. The Location Lookup window appears. Search location via search options, select the Location Id, and click Submit. Click Save and Continue. &nbsp;On the Product Selection Method page, Select&nbsp;Product Selection Method from the following options.&nbsp;Click Save and Continue. By Attributes -&nbsp;&nbsp;Products meeting specified criteria will be scanned for on-hand inventory in stores meeting store selection criteria. If the user selects this option, Select Products pages will be disabled (strikethrough). Specific Styles/Products - Enter specific styles and/or products to be pulled back. If the user selects this option, Select Products By Attributes pages will be disabled (strikethrough). &nbsp;On the&nbsp;Select Products By Attributes, Select the&nbsp;Selling Season Code, Department,&nbsp;Class, and Subclass from their drop-down list.&nbsp;Click Save and Continue. &nbsp;On&nbsp;the Select Products page, enter the Product Id or&nbsp;Department, or Size, or&nbsp;Name, or Class, or Material, or Brand, or Subclass, or Vendor or Color&nbsp;and&nbsp;click on the Search button,&nbsp;or click Search button directly.&nbsp;The Product Lookup window appears. Search location via search options, select the required field, and&nbsp;click Submit.&nbsp; &nbsp;On the Select Styles page,&nbsp; enter the&nbsp; Department, or Class, or&nbsp;Subclass, or Brand, or Vendor Id, or select the Style Template from the drop-down list, or Style Id and&nbsp;click on the Search button,&nbsp;or click Search button directly.&nbsp;The Style Lookup&nbsp;window appears. Search location via search options, select the required field, and&nbsp;click Submit.&nbsp; Click Save and Finish. Editing a Pullback Request You can edit the attributes of an existing pullback request using one of the below procedures: &nbsp; Swipe-out List Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt; Allocation&gt;&nbsp;Distribution Orders&gt; Pullback Request Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Swipe-out the menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Edit. In the Edit Pullback Request&nbsp;window, modify the required fields. Click&nbsp;Save & Close&nbsp;to save the modified pullback request details. Edit View Select the required pullback request record card. The action buttons are displayed in the footer section. Click&nbsp;Edit&nbsp;to view the edit&nbsp;Pullback Request&nbsp;window. Modify the required fields. Click&nbsp;Save & Close&nbsp;to save the modified pullback request details. Details View &nbsp; Swipe Out List Swipe-out the menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Details. In the&nbsp;Pullback Request&nbsp;wizard, you can view the details of the pullback request items. Details View Select the required record card and you can view the action&nbsp;buttons displayed on the footer section. Click&nbsp;Details&nbsp;from the action button to view&nbsp;details of pullback request items. Deleting a&nbsp;Pullback Request &nbsp; The pullback request records can be deleted by following one of the below procedures: &nbsp; Swipe-out List Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt; Allocation&gt;&nbsp;Distribution Orders&gt; Pullback Request Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Swipe-out menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts as &#39;Deletion of Pullback Request is irreversible&#39;. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the pullback request. Delete Select the required record card. The footer section with action buttons is displayed. Select&nbsp;Delete. &nbsp; Field Description Following are the field descriptions of the attributes available on the screen. &nbsp; Field &nbsp; Description &nbsp; Pullback Id&nbsp; Unique Identifier for the Entity.&nbsp; It&rsquo;s also the business key of the entity. Description&nbsp; Description of Return Request. Example:&nbsp;End Of Season by Region, End of Season by DC, Recall Region The group of geographical locations within the organization. The region or zone (East, West, Northeast, Central). Stores with selected Region will be scanned for products, with on-hand inventory, meeting the product criteria. Climate The climate classification for stores (Hot, Cold, Warm). Stores with specified Climate will be scanned for products, with on-hand inventory, meeting the product criteria. District&nbsp; The group of geographical locations within the organization. The name of the district. Stores with specified District will be scanned for products, with on-hand inventory, meeting the product criteria. Primary DC &nbsp;The primary sourcing DC for the store. The store(s) with specified Primary DC will be scanned for products, with on hand inventory, meeting the product criteria. Location Id The unique identifier for the location. The store(s) from which inventory will be pulled back is entered. Destination Location The destination location to which inventory will be pulled back or sent. Product Id The unique identifier of the product. Enter or look up specific products to be pulled back. Style Id The style identifier. If a product is part of a style. Enter or look up specific styles to be pulled back. &nbsp; Action Buttons Following are the action buttons available on the screen. &nbsp; Select All Rows Selects all the rows of records on the screen. Export Exports the list of pullback requests attributes, the file will be downloaded onto your system. View&nbsp;Export&nbsp;for more information. Create Opens the&nbsp;Pullback Request&nbsp;window.&nbsp; Edit Opens the relevant Pullback Request&nbsp;window. Details Opens the relevant&nbsp;Pullback Request&nbsp;window&nbsp;to view configuration details. Refresh Deletes and regenerates Pullback Selection Summary details for specified products/styles having on-hand inventory at specified stores.&nbsp; Delete Deletes the selected record. Review & Approve Displays the Pullback Selection Summary popup. The units per product, style, and location are the order line units generate upon Approval of a Pullback. &nbsp; Click Approve. Order lines are grouped by store to destination combination and publish to a queue to be consumed by Manhattan Omni or any third party system.