# Pullbacks and Transfers Configuration

**Permalink:** pullbacks-transfers-configuration
**Content Length:** 13,917 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:36:24.935754

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Inventory & Fulfillment&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Inventory Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Pullbacks & Transfers ››Pullbacks and Transfers Configuration Pullbacks and&nbsp;Transfers Configuration Pullback&nbsp;and Transfer&nbsp;Orders Type ConfigurationPrint Pullback and Transfer Pick ListPackage Type SortingReason CodesStore Fulfillment ParametersResourcesSetting up Batch Job SchedulerUIs and Entities Pullback&nbsp;and Transfer&nbsp;Orders Type Configuration The order list displays orders that match the configured order types for pullbacks and transfers.&nbsp;These configuration values (Pullback Order Type and Transfer Order Type) are found in the Store Fulfillment&nbsp;Parameters UI. One or more order types can be listed for pullbacks and transfers, respectively. If multiple values are entered, they must be separated by a colon. As an example, the following shows a list of three&nbsp;user-defined pullback order type values: Pullback Defective Item: Pullback RTV: Pullback RTDC &nbsp; Note: These order types must be configured in Order Management before creating&nbsp;orders for the stores. Print Pullback and Transfer Pick List The print sort order is controlled by the&nbsp;Print Pullback Transfer&nbsp;PickList&nbsp;Based&nbsp;configuration in the Store Fulfillment Parameters UI. This&nbsp;configuration&nbsp;is a drop-down list with the following&nbsp;values: Department, Item, and Style. The default value is set as Item. If the value is set as "Department", then in the pick list, the system will sort the items based on the departments. For example,&nbsp;Men, Kids, Women&nbsp;and so on. This parameter is used for sorting of the&nbsp;items in the printed pick list and not on the UI. Package Type Sorting Reason Codes Reason codes with reason type 'Short' must&nbsp;be defined in the Store Fulfillment Reasons UI to report shortages during packing of pullback/transfer orders. Reason codes with fulfillment type equal to null&nbsp;or 'Pullback/transfer' are displayed for shorting. Store Fulfillment Parameters Suppress Default Package Type The&nbsp;Suppress&nbsp;package type defaulting for&nbsp;pullbacks/transfers&nbsp;and store-initiated transfers&nbsp;flag&nbsp;on the Store Fulfillment Parameters&nbsp;UI controls whether the package type is defaulted to associates during packing of transfer orders. If set to true, the package type default is suppressed&nbsp;and the user must choose a package type before closing the package. Otherwise, the package type is defaulted to the user. The previously selected package type is shown as the default. If this is the first packing done on the device, the first package type in the list is used as the default. This configuration is turned off&nbsp;by default. Pullback Transfer - Enable warning pop-up when packing less than expected The&nbsp;Pullback Transfer - Enable warning pop-up when packing less than expected&nbsp;flag&nbsp;on the Store Fulfillment Parameters&nbsp;UI controls whether a warning pop-up will be shown to the user if less than expected quantities have been packed. The warning pop-up is to communicate to the user that there are remaining items left to pack and if the user wants to continue closing the package and generating a shipping label. If this flag is turned off, a warning pop-up is not shown to the user if&nbsp;less than expected is packed.&nbsp;&nbsp; This configuration is turned off&nbsp;by default. In-transit records for shipped packages The&nbsp;Create in-transit records for shipping inventory from a store to another location&nbsp;flag on the Store Fulfillment Parameters UI determines&nbsp;whether the system will&nbsp;create in-transit records for packages that are shipped from a store to another location within the retailer's network.&nbsp;When this configuration is set to true,&nbsp;ASN intransit inventory record is&nbsp;created for the Pullback/Transfer Order&nbsp;packages that are shipped from the store. This configuration is turned off&nbsp;by default. External OMS Integration There are two ways to enable this functionality - via the 'isExternalOrder' attribute of the Fulfillment or through the&nbsp;'Is Store Inventory Management deployed?'&nbsp;configuration in Store Fulfillment Parameters. If&nbsp;the&nbsp;Fulfillment property is true, it overrides whatever value is configured. If the value is passed as false, the configuration determines the behavior. For SIF to directly send supply updates to the Inventory component, the value should be set to true (regardless of whether it is set by passing in the Fulfillment or via the configuration.) If the updates should not be set, the value should be false. The default configuration value is false. Configuration: “Is Store Inventory Management deployed?” configuration in the&nbsp;External OMS Integration&nbsp;tab of the&nbsp;Store Fulfillment Parameters. Set this configuration to true to enable direct inventory updates without the involvement of the Active Order component. In the event that the external OMS is replaced by Manhattan Active Order Management, ensure that this functionality is turned off. Failure to do so may result in double dipping of the inventory. Sample Request: { "FulfillmentId" : "Ful001", //existing properties "IsExternalOrder" : true } &nbsp; Resources The associate should have the following resource&nbsp;assigned to the role to be able to work on the pullback and transfer functionality. Resource ID:&nbsp;ui-inventory::inventory::pullbacks-transfers Setting up Batch Job Scheduler A sample JSON to configure the job scheduler is shown below as a&nbsp;UI is not available.&nbsp; Steps: Execute the scheduler by running the sample json&nbsp;below. API to hit: http://{url}}/fulfillment/api/batch/jobSchedule/save Initialize the scheduler by giving the post call to this: http://{{url}}/fulfillment/api/batch/jobScheduler/initializeScheduler. This will initialize the new scheduler added. Then the scheduler will take the fulfillment and move the eligible&nbsp;packages for that fulfillment to shipped state. &nbsp; http://{{url}}/fulfillment/api/batch/jobSchedule/save {&nbsp;"JobScheduleId":"shipNonParcelPackagesJob2", &nbsp;"JobTypeId":"shipNonParcelPackagesJob",&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;"CronExpression":"0 0/2 * 1/1 * ? *",&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;"TriggerKey":"shipNonParcelPackagesJob2",&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;"JobParameters":[&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; {&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;"InputKey":"QueryString", &nbsp;"InputValue":"SELECT DISTINCT fulfillment.fulfillmentId from FulfillmentEntity fulfillment JOIN fulfillment.packagesList packages where fulfillment.shipFromLocationId in (:FacilityIds) AND fulfillment.deliveryMethodId=':DeliveryMethodId' AND fulfillment.docTypeId=':DocTypeId' AND fulfillment.orgId=':OrgId' AND fulfillment.fulfillmentId=packages.fulfillmentId AND packages.packageStatus.packageStatusId=':PackageStatus' AND fulfillment.isNonParcel=':IsNonParcel'"&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; }, &nbsp;{&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;"InputKey":"PackageStatus",&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;"InputValue":"2000.000"&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; }, &nbsp;{&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;"InputKey":"FacilityIds",&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;"InputValue":"'STR-NorthLake'"&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; }, &nbsp;{&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;"InputKey":"DeliveryMethodId",&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;"InputValue":"ShipToLocation"&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; }, &nbsp;{&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;"InputKey":"OrgId",&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;"InputValue":"dummyOrg"&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; }, &nbsp;{&nbsp; "InputKey":"AddSecurityCriteria",&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; "InputValue":"false"&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; }, &nbsp;{&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;"InputKey":"DocTypeId",&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;"InputValue":"RetailOrder"&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; },&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;{&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;"InputKey":"IsNonParcel",&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;"InputValue":"TRUE"&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; }&nbsp; &nbsp;]} &nbsp; UIs and Entities The configuration UIs mentioned in this document are listed in the following table,&nbsp;along with information to&nbsp;navigate&nbsp;to the API documentation. UI Name Component Group Seed Data Present? Seed Data Profile Store Fulfillment Parameters Fulfillment FulfillmentParameters Services Yes Base Store Fulfillment Reasons Fulfillment FulfillmentReasons Services Yes Base Package Types Parcel PackageType Services Yes Base