# Quote Orders

**Permalink:** quote-orders
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Order Management/Process & Configuration Guides/Order Orchestration/Creating and Updating Order/Quote Orders
**Content Length:** 23,702 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:56:31.329591

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Order Management››Process & Configuration Guides››Order Orchestration››Creating and Updating Order ››Quote Orders Quote Orders Previous I Next Quote OrdersOverviewUsecaseQuote Order Creation from POSQuote Order Creation using Order APIsModification of QuotePurchase from Quote OrderPurchase from Quote RulesConvert Quote to Customer OrderConvert Quote to Order RulesUpdate Customer Order to QuoteUpdate Order to Quote RulesConfigurationQuote Orders in the Call Center UIImplementation FlavorsFeature ScopeRelated Articles Overview Manhattan Active® Omni Order Management supports Quote orders for pricing agreement with different items like Ship To Address, Pick Up At Store or In-Store Sale item. The main feature of quote orders is that it requires order selling abilities to provide pricing details like price, promotions, charges, and taxes. The quote price is valid for a few days, after which the quote order is considered invalid. Quote orders are unconfirmed orders, and they don't need any fulfillment characteristics. This means that there is no need to reserve inventory, release or fulfill such orders. An order is considered to be a quote order when the field doc type ID contains the information "QuoteOrder". /.. rest of the order json "DocType": { "DocTypeId": "QuoteOrder" } /..rest of the order json A quote order can have different order types that represent different categories of quote orders. For example: Quote orders for pricing agreement Quote orders are commonly captured in stores. Below is an example of how quote order works in Manhattan Active® Omni Order Management: A customer walks into a store, requests a quote or pricing agreement for the items. A regular store order is created in Manhattan Active® Omni with the items customers wish to buy in the future. The store associate converts the regular order to a Quote order and provides the Quote Receipt. The customer later walks into the store to purchase from Quote or if the customer does not show up, then the Quote is automatically canceled after the quote expires. The store associate will search for the quote. The existing quote is converted to a customer order or a new customer order is created from an existing quote without conversion, retaining the original price, promotions and charges if any. However, the taxes are recalculated again based on the sale date. The order is completed or shipped, and an invoice is created. Usecase Allow Quote Order Creation from POS or using order APIs Modification of Quotes in POS or Contact Center or using order APIs Purchase from Quote or convert Quote to Order in POS or Contact Center or using order APIs Update Customer Order to Quote Order in POS or Contact Center or using order APIs Quote Order Creation from POS Quote Creation In MA Point of Sale solution, a customer order is created when the items are added to the cart, the same order is converted to Quote order if the customer wishes to hold the prices for some time and come back later for purchasing. The customer order with items for Ship to Address or Pick up at Store prior to conversion would be in allocated based on inventory availability. However, when the same order is converted to a Quote order, by default, the reservations are canceled and if the retailer chooses to hold the allocation, then Cancel Reservations and Evaluate Pipeline for order modification type UpdateOrderToQuote should be set to false for the quote config. Quote Order Creation using Order APIs All types of quote orders can be created or updated through the Save Order API. Below is a sample quote order create json. Sample Quote Order Json{ "OrderId": "010416171028999000201", "OrderType": { "OrderTypeId": "Quote Order" }, "DocType": { "DocTypeId": "QuoteOrder" } When a quote order is created, the order will remain in open status. The prices, charges and the taxes on the order are retained if the order actions "IsAlreadyPriced", IsAlreadyCharged" and "IsAlreadyTaxed" are set true. Additionally, a cancellation message is generated to cancel the quote order after the quote expires. Out of the box, Quote Orders are cancelled after 30 days from creation. Refer here for quote expiration days configuration. The same quote expiration days configuration is used to stamp the quote expiry date on the order which can be used to print on the quote receipt. The lifecycle of a quote order would be from Open to Cancelled status. Quote Order Rules Quote order cannot be confirmed. Quote order cannot be converted to a retail order. Modification of Quote When a quote order is updated, the order goes through out of the box order configuration "QuoteConfig" rules to process the order updates. Quote modification can happen from POS or Contact Center or via Order APIs. Purchase from Quote Order A regular mPOS or a customer order can be created from a valid or non-expired Quote Order. Manhattan Active® Omni Order Management retrieves Quote and the same order is converted to a customer order. The prices and charges on the order are retained if the order actions "IsAlreadyPriced" and IsAlreadyCharged" are set true. Additionally, when a purchase from quote is initiated, the following changes specific to purchase to quote conversion are handled: DocType updated to CustomerOrder Each order line will have reference to QuoteId Each order line will have the original created date copied to the captured date to retain promotions in case of order modifications resulting in promotion re-evaluation. Persist any specific overridden data from the original quote like, SellingLocationId SellingChannel SaleAssociate BusinessDate OrderCaptureDetail Sample Purchase from Quote Creation{ "OrderActions": { “PurchaseFromQuote”: 1273747 (Non Cancelled Quote Order Id), "IsAlreadyPriced": true, "IsAlreadyCharged": true, "IsAlreadyTaxed": false }, "OrderId": "010416171028999000201", "OrderType": { "OrderTypeId": "mPos Order" }, "DocType": { "DocTypeId": "CustomerOrder" } { "SellingLocationId":"tm-demo-us:80228-1028", "SellingChannel":{ "SellingChannelId":"Store" }, "BusinessDate":"2023-10-27", "OrderCaptureDetail":[ { "TillId":null, "TransactionType":null, "DeviceId":"BRW-999999999999", "JobClass":null, "ReceiptScanned":false, "EmployeeId":null, "PurgeDate":null, "RegisterId":"999", "CaptureDate":"2023-10-27T01:19:22.321", "StoreDisplayId":"tm-demo-us:80228-1028" } ] } } Purchase from Quote Rules Purchase from a non-quote is not allowed. Purchase from an expired quote is not allowed. If the quote is already expired, then the system will throw validation. Single purchase from multiple quotes is not allowed. If a single purchase across different quotes from a customer is initiated, then the system will throw validation. Any non-supported overridden data is not allowed. Only the above listed overridden fields are supported. If anything else is passed, the system will throw validation. Convert Quote to Customer Order Active® Omni Order Management provides an option to either create a new customer order from a quote or convert an existing quote order to a customer order. If retailers want the latter option, then "Convert Quote To Customer Order" under Order Parameters should be enabled. When this parameter is enabled, an existing Quote Order will be converted to a customer order provided the order is marked as ready for payment and a valid customer order type is sent in the order request. A converted quote to a customer order cannot be retrieved as a quote order later when the above order parameter is turned on. The converted customer order will retain the original prices and is not evaluated for pricing and this is controlled through mod type "UpdateQuoteToOrder". To apply this mod type rule or view the mod types in the order configuration UI, sync the customer order matching order configuration using, {{url}}/order/api/order/orderConfig/preview?orderConfigId=defaultConfig or mPOSConfig. The customer order will go through a regular allocation process post conversion. Sample Convert Quote To Order{ "OrderId":"CC10591", "IsReadyForTender":"true", "OrderType":"Valid CustomerOrder type only" } Convert Quote to Order Rules Quote conversion is not allowed until the customer is ready to make payment. Note: The Ready For Tender flag = true is considered as ready for payment. Update Customer Order to Quote Active® Omni Order Management provides an option to save a converted customer order to quote if the customer changes his mind to not continue with the purchase. This option is available when the "Convert Quote To Customer Order"under Order Parameters is enabled. When this parameter is enabled, an existing customer order will be converted to a Quote Order provided the order is marked as not ready for payment and a valid quote order type is sent in the order request, and and “Default Quote Order Type” is configured in the Contact Center Configuration UI. Additional validation as mentioned below is also applied for orders for quote conversion. The converted Quote Order will retain the original prices and is not evaluated for pricing and this is controlled through modification type "UpdateOrderToQuote". However, subsequent modifications to the order line will trigger re-evaluation of pricing service. To apply modification type rules or view the modification types in the order configuration UI, sync the quote order configuration using, {{url}}/order/api/order/orderConfig/preview?orderConfigId=QuoteConfig. Update Order to Quote Rules Confirmed customer order conversion to quote is not allowed. Conversion is not allowed when there are any invoices on the customer order. Conversion is not allowed when there is any valid payment on the customer order. Conversion is not allowed if the order type does not match Doc type "QuoteOrder". Note: Ready For Tender flag = false is considered as not ready for payment. Configuration Order Types Different quote order types associated with Doc type "QuoteOrder" can be created, and the same can be used for Quote order creation. Refer Order Type Configuration for more details. Order Configuration Default QuoteConfig can be updated if there are any changes required to the base recommendation on order orchestration rules. Sync the applicable order config for Convert Order to Quote and Save as Quote functionality. Sync Order Config for Quote to Order and Save as Quote functionality API: api/order/orderConfig/sync Body: { "data": [ { "OrderConfigId": "defaultConfig", "ModTypes": [ { "Messages": null, "ModTypeId": "Order::UpdateQuoteToOrder" }, { "Messages": null, "ModTypeId": "Order::UpdateOrderToQuote" } ] } ] } Order Parameters Convert Quote to Customer Order. Refer here for more details on how to configure this parameter. Define the maximum number of quote expiration days. The maximum allowed number of days is 30. Refer Configuring Quote Expiration Days for more details. Quote Orders in the Call Center UI Quote orders may be edited in the Call Center UI. In addition, they can be converted to orders so that the CSR may accept payment and the system can process the order. For more information about quote order in the Call Center UI, see the Order Modification Page. Note: The conversion of a store sale quote order to customer order from a call center is not restricted. However, if such orders are converted, then it follows the store sale delivery method's pipeline and moves the order to fulfilled status while the customer has not received the items. Implementation Flavors NA Feature Scope Quote Creation is not supported by Manhattan Active® Omni Contact Center or DSS application Related Articles RFID Cart and FulfillmentKit ItemsReserve Online Pickup in Store (ROPIS) OrdersOrder ValidationSupersession ItemsRetail Orders and Large Orders