# Receiving Configuration

**Permalink:** receiving-configuration
**Content Length:** 20,409 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:36:27.320883

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Inventory & Fulfillment&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Inventory Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Receiving ››Receiving Configuration Receiving Configuration Store Inventory ConfigurationSIM Outbound Event ConfigurationStore Inventory ParametersRequire associate to report when done receivingView in-transit packages inbound to the storeDefault view of packages expected to arriveStore disposition to receive customer pickup receiptsStore disposition to receive store stock receiptsAllow store associate to adjust inventory during receivingLate ASN Match Window in DaysStore RFID ConfigurationsDisable auto-match of unknown tagsConfigure carrier logoStore DispositionsAvailable for inventory adjustments during receivingDefault store disposition for inventory adjustments during receivingManhattan Active&nbsp;Warehouse Management and StoreVerify ReceiptReceive Fulfillment ConfigurationBatch Job SchedulerReceiving Store ReturnsUIs and Entities Store Inventory Configuration Scan Controls - The&nbsp;Required to scan at least one unit&nbsp;flag&nbsp;on the Store Inventory Configuration UI controls the edit quantity behavior on the UI. At least one unit is required to be scanned before editing the received quantity in UI if the&nbsp;flag is set to true. Editing quantity is allowed for those items that have the&nbsp;Scan Only&nbsp;attribute set as false. This is helpful in ensuring the right items are indicated as received without losing the ability to edit quantity in the case of multi-unit picking. This applies only to the Store Inventory and Fulfillment UI. SIM Outbound Event Configuration Events used for communication between SIM and Store Fulfillment and Inventory&nbsp;must be configured. The SIM component sends an outbound message to the fulfillment component. The message contains the received package status. The SIM component sends an outbound message to the inventory component to update the store's inventory. Store Inventory Parameters Configuration on the Store Inventory Parameters UI can be configured for a location, group of locations (Store profile type) or at an Organization level. Require associate to report when done receiving If set to true, the&nbsp;'Review & Submit' confirmation popup is not automatically displayed to the user during the receiving process, and the user must explicitly indicate to the system once they are done receiving. This flow can be beneficial when a store commonly receives&nbsp;small&nbsp;ASNs, and store associates would like to continuously scan the packages without needing to accept confirmation notifications that all packages for the in-progress ASNs have been received. If this parameter is false, the 'Review & Submit' confirmation is displayed&nbsp;to the user&nbsp;once all expected packages for the in-progress ASNs have been scanned.&nbsp;By default, this parameter is false. This parameter applies to receipt types: package, item, load, and order. View in-transit packages inbound to the store If set to true, the Receive Inventory menu displays the expected list of incoming in-transit packages to the store. If this parameter is false, then the expected packages list is not displayed, and the&nbsp;associate can initiate the receiving flow by scanning a package.&nbsp; By default, this parameter is set to false. Default view of packages expected to arrive This parameter allows retailers to configure a default view of inbound in-transit expected packages list. Retailers can configure following default views: Today: If this default view is configured, then associate can view incoming in-transit packages expected to&nbsp;arrive on that date. The list would contain packages with ETA = current date.&nbsp; Tomorrow:&nbsp;If this default view is configured, then associate can view incoming in-transit packages expected to arrive on the next day. The list would contain packages with ETA = (current date + 1). This Week:&nbsp;If this default view is configured, then associate can view incoming in-transit packages expected to&nbsp;arrive during the week, starting from the current date. The list would contain packages with ETA = (current date + 6 days). If a value in&nbsp;"Default view of packages expected to arrive" is not configured, then all incoming in-transit packages to the store are displayed. By default, no default view is configured.&nbsp; Store disposition to receive customer pickup receipts This parameter allows retailers to configure the store disposition used for receiving&nbsp;customer pickup receipts. The supply type mapped to the store disposition is used to increment inventory.&nbsp;If not configured, the default supply type defined for the transaction type Receipt configured in Inventory component is used to update inventory.&nbsp;&nbsp; Store disposition to receive store stock receipts This parameter allows retailers to configure the store disposition used for receiving&nbsp;store stock receipts. The supply type mapped to the store disposition is used to increment inventory.&nbsp;If not configured, the default supply type defined for the transaction type Receipt configured in Inventory component is used to update inventory. Allow store associate to adjust inventory during receiving This parameter allows retailers to adjust the inventory of the package when they receive it.&nbsp; Note: This functionality is only supported for store replenishment where inventory can be received at the package or item level. It is not supported for customer pickup orders. If this parameter is false, then&nbsp;store associates cannot report discrepancies between expected and actual inventory during receiving. By default, this parameter is set to false. Late ASN Match Window in Days This parameter is used to configure the number of days allowed for accepting the late ASN arrival in the MAO Store app system to consider the matching of the packages that are received as blind, and merge the data and eventually, to close the ASNs. The default number of days is 14. Store RFID Configurations Disable auto-match of unknown tags This configuration allows retailers to disable automatic matching of unknown tags when a package doesn't contain EPCs feed. Store associates are then required to scan the package ID to proceed with the receiving process. By default, this parameter is set to false. Note: This configuration is currently not available in the Store RFID Configuration MUP UI. Use the API to enable/disable the business configuration. Configure carrier logo This configuration allows retailers to see the&nbsp;carrier logo&nbsp;on the package track (in transit) details. This configuration is available in the "Manage Carriers" --&gt; "Carriers".&nbsp; In the carrier's details,&nbsp;configuration Name: Carrier Logo URI Store Dispositions The following set of configurations defines the Store Dispositions which are used for inventory adjustment during the receiving process. Available for inventory adjustments during receiving If set to true, the store disposition becomes eligible for inventory adjustments during receiving for store associates to select during the receiving process. If this parameter is false, then&nbsp;the store disposition is not eligible for adjustment during receiving. By default, this parameter is set to false. Default store disposition for inventory adjustments during receiving If set to true, this becomes the default store disposition that appears in the Receiving UI when an associates adds a disposition. Only one store disposition should be marked as the default. This parameter is optional, and if no dispositions are set as the default then the UI loads without a pre-selected value.&nbsp; If this parameter is false, then&nbsp;the store disposition is not considered as the default disposition for inventory adjustments during receiving. By default, this parameter is set to false. Manhattan Active&nbsp;Warehouse Management and Store Configure the inbound and outbound messages to convert the OB ASN into the fulfillment for receiving. Manhattan Active OMNI&nbsp; : InboundMessageType in Fulfillment (To get message from XINT) {{url}}/fulfillment/api/ServiceDefinition/inBoundMessageType/save { &nbsp; "MessageType": "xin-RcvOutboundASN", &nbsp; "NoOfConsumer": 10, &nbsp; "MinNoOfConsumer": 1, &nbsp; "Idempotent": false, &nbsp; "ExternalIntegrationRequired": true, &nbsp; "MaxDesiredInstances": 6, &nbsp; "ScaleUpTimeWindow": 10, &nbsp; "ScaleDownTimeWindow": 20, &nbsp; "Description": "Inbound for consuming WM receive OBASN payloads from xint via Kafka", &nbsp; "ServiceId": "DCToFulfillmentEventServiceListener" } Manhattan Active OMNI&nbsp; : InboundMessageType in XINT (To get message from PUBSUB) {{url}}/xint/api/ServiceDefinition/inBoundMessageType/save { &nbsp; &nbsp; "MessageType": "xin-RcvOutboundASN-GCPQ", &nbsp; &nbsp; "NoOfConsumer": 10, &nbsp; &nbsp; "MinNoOfConsumer": 1, &nbsp; &nbsp; "MaxDesiredInstances": 6, &nbsp; &nbsp; "ScaleUpTimeWindow": 10, &nbsp; &nbsp; "ScaleDownTimeWindow": 20, &nbsp; &nbsp; "Description": "Inbound for consuming messages from Kafka for rcvOBASN events from WM", &nbsp; &nbsp; "ServiceId": null, &nbsp; &nbsp; "BrokerClusterName": "PUBSUB-DefaultRouterBrokerConfig", &nbsp; &nbsp; "InBoundQueues": { &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; "QueueName": "{:CUSTOMER_CODE}-{:ENV_MATCH_ID}-RcvOBASN_GCPQ", &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; "FullyQualifiedQueueV2": true &nbsp; &nbsp; }, &nbsp; &nbsp; "InBoundMsgToRetransmit": { &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; "ToMessageType": "xin-RcvOutboundASN" &nbsp; &nbsp; } } Manhattan Active OMNI&nbsp; :&nbsp;OutboundMessageType in XINT (To push message to fulfillment) {{url}}xint/api/ServiceDefinition/outBoundMessageType/save { &nbsp; "MessageType": "xin-RcvOutboundASN", &nbsp; "Transactional": false, &nbsp; "PersistMessageToMsgStore": false } Verify Receipt Receive Fulfillment Configuration The "Number of days since latest receiving date in performing ASN verify"&nbsp;indicates as to after&nbsp;how many days of the last package receipt date should the ASN verification be performed. This configuration is set to 10 days by default. The job scheduler references this parameter when ASN verification occurs via the job scheduler (instead of&nbsp;automatic verification.) This configuration exists in the Receive Fulfillment Configuration UI. Note: Make sure that the number of configured days for ASN verification is&nbsp;less than the fulfillment archive and purge days to avoid archive/purging of fulfillments before they get verified. Batch Job Scheduler A job scheduler must be configured to verify the receipt (ASN) for scenarios where ASN verification doesn't occur automatically. HTTP method: POST {{url}}/sim/api/batch/jobSchedule/save { "JobScheduleId": "verifyReceiptFulfillmentJob-1", &nbsp; "JobTypeId": "verifyReceiptFulfillmentJob", "CronExpression": "0 0 0/1 1/1 * ? *", "TimeZone": "GMT", &nbsp; "TriggerKey": "VerifyReceiptFulfillmentJobTrigger-1", &nbsp; "JobParameters": [ { "InputKey": "ChunkSize", "InputValue": "1" } ] } *Change the cronexpression as per the business need. Receiving Store Returns Manhattan&nbsp;Active® Omni Store Inventory Management supports verification and receipt of "customer not present" return packages delivered to&nbsp;stores. Refer to the configuration section of the&nbsp;Customer Not Present Store Returns&nbsp;guide for information on how to enable.&nbsp; UIs and Entities The configuration UIs/entities mentioned in this document are listed in the following table,&nbsp;along with information to&nbsp;navigate&nbsp;to the API documentation. UI Name Component Group Seed Data Present? Seed Data Profile N/a SIM SimOutboundConfiguration services Yes Base N/a Fulfillment FulfillmentInboundConfiguration services Yes Base Receiving Fulfillment Configuration SIM SimOutboundConfiguration services No Base Store Inventory Configuration SIM StoreInventoryConfiguration services Yes Base Store Inventory Parameters SIM StoreInventoryParameter services Yes Base &nbsp;