# Receiving Delay

**Permalink:** receiving-delay
**Content Length:** 9,850 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:34:39.320910

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Enterprise Inventory ››Receiving Delay Receiving Delay Receiving DelayItem Location Receiving Delay&nbsp;Inventory Location Configuration&nbsp;Location Receiving DelayManage Reservation Hold Receiving delay enables you to configure a delay for the received inventory for a configured period of time. Refer to How future suppply works for more details. The receiving delay feature enables you&nbsp;to set up a delay specific to: Item Location Receiving Delay - To configure delay for Item/Location combination or for specific Item across all locations. Refer here for more details. Inventory Location Configuration - To configure delay in specific location for all items received.&nbsp;Refer here for more details. Location Receiving Delay -&nbsp; To configure delay for location, location type, location sub type(High volume stores/Low volume store), and all locations.&nbsp;Refer here for more details. Manage Reservation Hold - To&nbsp;change&nbsp;the reservation&nbsp;expiration date and delete a&nbsp;reservation after receiving a delay has been configured.&nbsp;Refer here for more details. Item Location Receiving Delay&nbsp; The item location receiving delay configuration feature enables you to configure a receiving delay in hours to hide the inventory based on both item and location.&nbsp;Refer here for more details. To configure Item Location Receiving Delay configuration, perform the following steps: Navigate to&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Application Configuration&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Manage Inventory Configuration&nbsp;&gt; Item Location Receiving Configuration. The Filter Panel&nbsp;enables you to filter based on Item ID and Location ID. On the ItemLocationReceivingDelay configuration page, you can upload a rules excel for configuring item location rules. Make sure you follow the below excel&nbsp;format for setting the rules excel.&nbsp; Excel format : (Column A : Empty, Column B : Empty, Column C : ItemId[Mandatory field], Column D : LocationId, Column E : ReceivingDelay). Click here for the&nbsp;sample excel. Note: If the record in excel has only ItemID and the LocationID is null, then the delay will be considered for the particular item in all the locations. On the ItemLocationReceivingDelay configuration page, you can view, edit, and delete the existing configurations. Inventory Location Configuration&nbsp; The inventory location configuration enables you to configure receiving delay in hours&nbsp;for a location.&nbsp;Refer here for more details. To configure receiving delay in hours, perform the following steps: Navigate to&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Application Configuration&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Manage Inventory Configuration&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Inventory Location. Click&nbsp;Add&nbsp;to add a new inventory location configuration or select the required inventory location and click&nbsp;View. In the Details tab, set the value for Receiving Delay In Hours. Note: If the receiving delay is not configured at the inventory&nbsp;location, then the system&nbsp;checks the Location Receiving Delay configuration for receiving delay. Location Receiving Delay Location Receiving Delay enables you to configure&nbsp;and set rule conditions for location receiving delay.&nbsp;Refer here for more details. To configure location receiving delay in hours, perform the following steps: Navigate to&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Application Configuration&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Manage Inventory Configuration&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Location Receiving Delay. The Filter Panel&nbsp;enables you to filter location receiving delay based on Include All Locations and Receiving Delay in Hours. On the Location Receiving Delay&nbsp;page,&nbsp; you can create a new configuration, or view, edit, and delete the existing configuration. Click Create to create a new configuration. Step 1 - Enter the location config details like Config Name, rank for the configuration, description, and select&nbsp;Include All Location if you want to set receiving delay for all&nbsp;the locations, and then click Save and Continue.&nbsp; Step 2 - Click Create to set the conditions. Enter the rule name, select the attribute(search for &quot;Location.&quot;) , operator, and the value for the attribute and click Save and Finish. Step 3 -&nbsp;&nbsp;Enter the Receiving Delay in Hours and click Save and Finish. To edit the existing configuration, select the configuration, and click&nbsp;Edit. Make the necessary changes as required and click&nbsp;Save and Finish. To view the existing configuration, select the configuration, and click&nbsp;View. In the view mode, you will be able to only view the details and not modify the values. To delete the existing configuration, select the configuration&nbsp;and click&nbsp;Delete. Note that multiple configurations can be deleted. Note: a) While setting the configuration, if &quot;Include All Location&quot; is set as yes in step 1, you will be taken directly to step 3 and will not be able to set the rule condition. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;b) Location Sub type ID needs to be defined in the Inventory Location, in order to populate the distinct values in the Location.Subtype values drop down Manage Reservation Hold Manage Reservation Hold allows you to manage the reservation upon receiving for the Item, Location, ItemLocation combination based on the rules configured. It allows users to view reservations, change ReservationExpirationDate, delete the reservations incase it is not required. To manage the reservation hold, perform the following steps: Navigate to&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Application Configuration&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Manage Inventory Configuration&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Manage Reservation Hold. The Filter Panel&nbsp;enables you to filter reservations based on Item ID, Location ID, and Reservation Expiration Date.&nbsp; The right panel shows the list of reservations created. To edit the existing reservation, select the reservation you want to modify and click&nbsp;Edit. Note that you can only update the Reservation Expiry Date. To view the existing reservation, select the reservation you want to view and click&nbsp;View. In the view mode, you will be able to only view the details and not modify the values. Reservation Delete Scheduler will delete the expired reservation after a subsequent run of the scheduler - the default scheduler time is 30 mins.&nbsp;To delete the existing reservations before the reservation has expired, select the reservation and click&nbsp;Delete.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;