# Receiving Process

**Permalink:** receiving-process
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Store/Process & Configuration Guides/Store Inventory & Fulfillment/Store Inventory Management/Receiving/Process
**Content Length:** 74,883 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:05:04.735380

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Store››Process & Configuration Guides››Store Inventory & Fulfillment››Store Inventory Management››Receiving ››Receiving Process Receiving Process Expected Receipt VisibilityPackages Tracking DetailsReceiving ProcessReceive PackageReceive ItemReceive LoadReject Auto-Received PackageReceive Package by OrderReceive Package for Unknown OrderInventory Availability DelayManhattan Active Warehouse Management and StoreShip To Store OrdersStore Replenishment OrdersReceiving UpdatesVerify ReceiptAutomatic verificationJob SchedulerInventory AuditExceptionsReceiving at the Wrong StoreVariance by QuantityReceive Unexpected ItemInventory Adjustment during ReceivingReceive by PackageReceive by ItemPause/Resume Receiving by ItemReceive Missed PackagesReceiving 'Built' PackagesLate ASN Match for Blind ReceiptsException SummaryShip-to-Store OrdersRFID - ReceivingReceive by reading tagsReceive by scanning package barcode or tracking numberRFID tag feedNo tag feed Disable auto-assign packagePackages with tagged and non-tagged unitsRFID Blind ReceivingRFID ExceptionsTag cannot be readException PackageUnexpected itemsUnexpected UnitsWrong store receivingManual quantity entryRFID Receive Missed PackagesOverhead RFID ReceivingReceiving with SublocationUpdatesCross-OrganizationShip to Store OrdersPullback/Transfer OrdersStore Initiated TransfersTroubleshootingReceiving Store ReturnsServices Receiving refers to the process in which a store receives inventory shipped from a distribution center (DC), another store, or a vendor. Received inventory can either be replenished for selling in store (restock) or staged for pickup by a customer. Receiving also refers to the process of accepting, verifying, and receiving the contents of a "customer not present" return package delivered to a store. When a DC or vendor ships inventory, an advanced shipment notification (ASN) is published to the receiving location. The ASN contains the shipped packages and their contents. The ASN is translated into a fulfillment to receive through Store Inventory Management (SIM.) Receiving against an order when an ASN is not present is also possible. The delivery type on the package indicates whether the inventory will be restocked or staged for pickup by the customer. Valid values of delivery type are as follows: - Store Inventory - Contents of the package are not (directly) tied to a customer order. Packages being received for store replenishment, pullbacks/transfers and store-initiated transfers have delivery type = store inventory. Customer pickup (Ship to store) - Package will be staged for pickup The receipt type on the package indicates how to receive the package. Supported receipt type and delivery type combinations are shown below. Packages can be bridged in with receipt types = Package, Item and Load. Receipt type Order and Unknown Order are updated only by the Store Inventory system when unknown packages are scanned by the user and created. For pullbacks, transfers, and store-initiated transfers, the receipt type will be package or item or load. Receipt Type Applies to Delivery Type(s) Package Store inventory and Customer pickup (Ship to store) Item Store inventory and Customer pickup (Ship to store) Load Store inventory and Customer pickup (Ship to store) Order Store inventory only Unknown order Store inventory only Note: For store inventory or customer pickup packages bridged in from another system, the receipt type can be bridged in as item, package, or load. For packages created from another store by SIF, the receipt type is always set to package. A user exit is available to set the receipt type to item or load. When creating a package, the PackageId and Tracking Number should be unique for each package record. To know more on the  receiving activity during offline mode, please refer to the Store Offline Support page. These receiving transactions can be handled by a single UI, and are initiated by entering a single package ID. For the UI help on Receiving, refer to Receive Inventory. Expected Receipt Visibility Store associate can view in-transit shipments which are expected to arrive at the store. The expected receipts can be viewed based on Receiving Configuration. The Expected Packages UI contains key information such as tracking number, estimated time of arrival, carrier, delivery type, origin, total units in the package etc. in addition to the details of an expected package such as service level, shipped date and the package content. Associates can also view the total number of expected packages and units. If the package is already delivered at the store but not yet received in the store application, then the package is marked with label "Delivered", so that the associate is aware that the package has arrived at the store. If the package has not arrived to the store by the expected date, a past due indicator is shown on the UI. Packages shipped from other organization within the hierarchy are also visible in the expected packages list based on "Allow stores to fulfill orders across organizations" parameter mentioned in Cross-Organization Configuration guide. Retailers can configure the default view of expected packages list. Refer to Receiving Configuration for more details. If default view is not configured, then all incoming in-transit packages expected to arrive at the store are listed. The list is displayed in the ascending order of ETA (estimated delivery date). If ETA is not present on one or more packages, then such packages are listed at the bottom of the list. Refer to Update ETA on Packages - Process guide for more information. The list can be further filtered using below options: Date range: Associate can specify start date and end date to view in-transit packages expected to arrive within the specified date range. If ETA is populated on the package, then ETA must be within the start and end date specified in the filter. Today: Associate can use this option to view incoming in-transit packages expected to arrive on that date. The list would contain packages with ETA = current date. Tomorrow: Associate can use this option to view incoming in-transit packages expected to arrive on the next day. The list would contain packages with ETA = (current date + 1). This Week: Associate can use this option to view incoming in-transit packages expected to arrive during the week, starting from the current date. The list would contain packages with ETA = (current date + 6 days). Packages Tracking Details Store associates can view the tracking details of the in-transit packages from the Expected Packages UI, based on permission. They can view the tracking details of customer orders as well as store replenishment packages. The tracking detail UI shows information about the 'Shipped by carrier', 'Carrier logo', 'Tracking number', and 'In-transit history'. Store associates can view the tracking details of packages that are shipped by the carriers "UPS", "FedEx" and "Agile". Refer to the Store Inventory UI resources guide for the permission information. Note: To see the carrier's logo in the tracking details, it must be configured. Refer to the receiving configuration guide for carrier logo configuration. A store associate enters a unique identifier on the package to begin the receiving process from expected packages list view. Refer to Receiving Process. "listCompletedShipments" API is called by the UI to fetch expected packages with below mentioned request parameters:             { "Page":"0", "Size":"20", "Location":"STR2-GMP-Brand1-US", "DestinedToStore":true, "PackedInStore":false, "PackageStatus":["3000.000"], "TotalCount":true, "SortByETA":true, "ListExpectedPackages":true } Receiving Process A store associate enters a unique identifier on the package to begin the receiving process. The package can be identified by either the package ID or the tracking number found on the shipping label. In the case of direct integration with FedEx, the 34 digit Carrier Barcode can also be used to receive the packages which arrive at the retailer's stores.The system validates the package status (<> 'Received' or 'Canceled') to validate that it is eligible to be received. From this point, whether the entered package data is found on a fulfillment along with the package's receipt type determines the flow: If the package is found and the receipt type on the package is set to 'Package', proceed to the Receive Package section. If the package is found and the receipt type on the package is set to 'Item', proceed to the Receive by Item section. If the package is found and the receipt type on the package is set to 'Load', proceed to the Receive Load section. If the package is not found and the user enters a known order number, proceed to the Receive Package by Order section. The ability to receive an unknown package is permission controlled. If the package is not found and the user enters an unknown order number, proceed to the Receive Package for Unknown Order section. The ability to receive an unknown package is permission controlled. Receive Package The entire package is received in one transaction. Shipped units in the packages are treated as received units. Any other packages to be received for the same fulfillment are presented to the user using the List Related Packages service. Packages in packed (built) and shipped status can be received. If the Inventory Adjustment during Receiving feature is enabled (see Configuration guide), store associates have the ability to receive against non-sellable store dispositions. Refer to the Inventory Adjustment during Receiving section of this document. Receive Item Each item must be entered to receive the units, requiring that the package be opened. With item-level receiving, once an associate begins receiving a package, it should be completed. If the package is skipped before completion, all items in the package must be recaptured to complete the receiving process. In this case, the Delete Intermittent Scans service skips receiving of the package by item. Note: The system restricts multiple users from receiving the same package by item. If Inventory Adjustment during Receiving feature is enabled (see Configuration guide), store associates have the ability to receive against non-sellable store dispositions. Refer to the Inventory Adjustment during Receiving section of this document. Receive Load The entire shipment is received in a single transaction, and all shipped packages in the shipment with receipt type set to 'Load' are treated as received packages. The list of received packages is returned using the List Related Packages service, which the store associate can use to identify the packages received by the system. Note: It is recommended to set the receipt type to item or package (if shipping accuracy is high) for customer pickup packages to increase inventory accuracy for the customer. Reject Auto-Received Package If the associate is unable to physically locate an auto-received package, the associate can reject that package to undo the receipt and inventory updates. The package can later be received when it arrives at the store. If it has not arrived, the job scheduler marks the packages as missing (see Verify Receipt section below.) The Reject package received at load level service reverts the package status to "Shipped". After rejecting a package, the following updates occur: The package status is reverted to "Shipped" on the fulfillment. Applies only to packages being delivered for store replenishment. Sellable inventory in the receiving store is decremented by the units received. The following information is sent to the Inventory Management for audit purposes when receipt reversal happens: Inventory Transaction Type - If the override store transaction type is configured for the store transaction type "Receipt Reversal", the inventory transaction type is populated with the override value. If no override is configured, the base value is sent. Inventory Transaction ID -  Fulfillment Id and Package Id are sent to identify the receipt reversal transaction. Note : If all packages of fulfillment are “Receive by Load”, rejection option won't support. It only supports mixed package scenarios, where the fulfillment has packages of other types, i.e. “Receive by Item” , “Receive by Package” along with “Receive by Load “. Receive Package by Order When the store associate chooses to receive by order and enters the order number (not the fulfillment ID), it is validated by the system in the receiving location (store). System validates the order details at the fulfillment line-level (order details), if the order is found, item and quantity information is returned to the UI. From this point, the process of receiving resembles the receive package by item process. The store associate submits the initial package after entering all the items in it. The remaining packages belonging to the same order can be received in the same manner. When a subsequent package is received for the same order, previously received units are displayed for the lines which have previously been received. Note: To receive the inventory with receipt type receive by order, the fulfillment line must have the ordered quantity. Receiving of items happens against the ordered quantity. If the order quantity for the fulfillment line is NULL then receiving of items happens against the 0 (zero) ordered quantity If receiving inventory at the wrong location within the same organization then UI shows the alert that receiving the order at the wrong location. Store associate has an option to proceed with the receiving of order at the wrong location or cancel the receiving process. If the cross-organization feature is enabled and order details are not available at the receiving location then the system validates the order details in the same organization's other locations and also in the other organization's locations. If order details are found at other organization locations then UI shows the alert of receiving inventory at the wrong location else it shows the order details not found. The system creates a package and its details based on the information submitted. The receipt type on the created packages is populated as 'Order'. The updates described in the Receiving Updates section also apply. Note:The store associate can receive the package by order only if the associate has the appropriate permission. Receive Package for Unknown Order When the store associate chooses to receive by order and enters the order number, it is validated by the system. If the entered order is not found, the user is given the opportunity to create the package and the order. To receive the unknown package and order, the store associate must indicate the shipping location of the package. The shipping location can be identified by the information available on the shipping label. From this point, the process of receiving resembles the receive by item process. The store associate submits the initial package after entering all the items in it. The remaining packages belonging to the same order can be received in the same manner. In addition to the updates described in the Receiving Updates section, the system creates a fulfillment with the provided order, and details are created using the received items. A package is created using the provided information in the submitted package and is linked to the created fulfillment. The receipt type of the package is populated as 'Blind'. The store associate can receive unknown package only if  the associate has appropriate permission. Inventory Availability Delay Store inventory can be automatically hidden from selling channels for a period of time after it is received to give the store time to unpack the products. This also allows retailers to stock hot styles for in-store sales before being exposed to selling channels or to hold early arriving season product from being exposed to selling channels. Configuration determines how long to delay exposing the inventory as available after it has been received. Refer to Enterprise Inventory documentation for additional information on how to enable. Manhattan Active Warehouse Management and Store Ship To Store Orders Stores can receive customer (ship to store) orders which are shipped via parcel carriers from a Manhattan Active Warehouse Management distribution center without external integration. Manhattan WM ships one customer order in one or multiple ASNs and all the packages belongs to only one customer order. Refer to the Outbound ASN Process and Configuration on Manhattan Active Supply Chain ProProfs site for additional information. Note: For STS Merge leg orders that contain a single item with multiple quantities, the package details should not list the same item on multiple lines. Instead, it should be represented as a single line with the total quantity. Note: STS Merge leg order, one-line item must be shipped in a single ASN only. For example, STS Order Line 1 should not be split across multiple ASNs. Store Replenishment Orders Stores can receive store replenishment orders which are shipped via parcel carriers or non-parcel mode from a Manhattan Active Warehouse Management distribution center without external integration. Manhattan WM can ship multiple replenishment orders in a single ASN when the shipping mode is non-parcel. However, if the mode is parcel, only one replenishment order can be shipped per ASN. Refer to the Outbound ASN Process and Configuration on Manhattan Active Supply Chain ProProfs site for additional information. Manhattan Active WM and Store Interface Mapping documents are available here which can be used to link data points from different systems. Receiving Updates After receiving a package, the following updates occur through the Receive service: The package status is marked as 'Received' on the fulfillment. Supply event message with transaction type as "Receipt" is sent to the Inventory Management System. When the supply event message is sent after receiving, following information is sent to the Inventory Management for audit purposes: Inventory Transaction Type - If the override store transaction type is configured for the store transaction type "Receipt", the inventory transaction type is populated with the override value. If no override is configured, the base value is sent. Inventory Transaction ID -  Fulfillment Id and Package Id are sent to identify the receiving transaction. When the delivery type of the received package is Store Inventory and the receiving parameter Store disposition to receive store stock receipts is not configured - the default supply type of receipt transaction is used configured - the supply type mapped to the selected store disposition is used In addition, if inventory is received against a non-sellable store disposition (see Inventory Adjustment during Receiving section), it is added to the inventory bucket that is mapped to that disposition. When the delivery type of the received package is Customer Pickup and the receiving parameter Store disposition to receive customer pickup receipts is not configured - the default supply type of receipt transaction is used configured - the supply type mapped to the selected store disposition is used irrespective of whether it is received in the intended location or not. In order to reduce inventory from the mapped supply type after customer picks up the order, enable "HonorAllocationsOnShip" in Inventory Location attribute for pickup Location. Refer to How Reservation Works guide for additional details. For ReceiptType = UnknownOrder, the receipt event will also contain "OrderID". Note : Once the order is received, the store does not send any outbound message to order management. Verify Receipt Automatic verification When receiving is done at the package or item level, ASN verification occurs automatically once the last package is received. For pullbacks, transfers, and store-initiated transfers, ASN verifications occurs automatically once the last package is received and the fulfillment’s isClosed flag = true. If the job scheduler is configured and the last package has not been received by the time it is configured to run, the job scheduler will perform the verify ASN updates. If the last package is not received, ASN verification must be performed via the job scheduler. When receiving is done at the load or order level (known or unknown order), ASN verification does not occur automatically. It must occur via the ASN Verification job scheduler. However, when there is only one package in the ASN that is received by load, it is verified automatically. Job Scheduler For scenarios when the job scheduler performs ASN verification (see explanation in previous section), the batch job looks for any fulfillments that are not yet verified: If all packages for the fulfillment are in 'Received' status, the scheduler marks the fulfillment as verified. If all the packages for the fulfillment are not yet received, the system determines if the last package received + number of configured days to wait is less than the current date. If yes, the fulfillment is verified. Any packages that are not yet received are updated to "Missed" status, regardless of their status. If no, the batch job skips the fulfillment. Inventory Audit The following information is sent to the Inventory Management for audit purposes when the receipt (ASN) is verified: Inventory Transaction Type - If the override store transaction type is configured for the store transaction type "Receipt Verification", the inventory transaction type is populated with the override value. If no override is configured, the base value is sent. Inventory Transaction ID -  Fulfillment Id and Package Id are sent to identify the receiving transaction. Refer to Receiving Configuration guide for configuration details. Exceptions Receiving at the Wrong Store If a delivered package is intended for another store, an indication is provided to the associate. The retailer can then choose to receive the package or to ship it to the right store. If the retailer chooses to ship the package to the right store, the shipping must be handled outside SIM. If the store associate is receiving the entire shipment at the wrong store where packages are marked with the receipt type as "Load", then the store associate has to receive each package individually, because this is an exceptional scenario. The following information is sent to the Inventory Management for audit purposes when a package is received at the wrong store: Inventory Transaction Type - If the override store transaction type is configured for the store transaction type "Receipt Adjustment Wrong Store", the inventory transaction type is populated with the override value. If no override is configured, the base value is sent. Inventory Transaction ID -  Package ID is sent to identify the receiving transaction. In-transit supply records won't be updated until the last package in the load has been received. The ability for an associate to receive a package at the wrong store is permission controlled. Variance by Quantity When receiving at the item or order level, if the store associate enters additional or fewer units of an expected item, an indication is shown during package submission. In the case of additional units, the associate can receive the additional units, which increments the sellable quantity of the item. Receive Unexpected Item When receiving at the item or order level, an indication is given if the store associate enters an unexpected item for the package or order. The associate can receive the additional item, which increments the sellable quantity of the item. Inventory Adjustment during Receiving When this feature is enabled (refer to the configuration guide), in addition to allowing store associates to enter quantity variances for an item (i.e., over-receipt or missing units) and add an unexpected item, they have the ability to receive inventory against non-sellable store dispositions (i.e, damaged.) Inventory adjustments are supported for store inventory packages with a receipt type of Package or Item. It is not supported for customer pickup orders. Based on permissions, a mark all items with disposition action is available on the UI for associates to quickly apply a non-sellable disposition to all units in the package. Receive by Package Once a package with a receipt type of package is scanned, the store associate has the ability to perform an inventory adjustment until the next package is scanned. Based on permissions, the associate can perform a "top down" adjustment using the Adjust action or a "bottom up" adjustment using the Receive By Item action. Both these actions convert the package to item receipt type. The Adjust action is intended to handle minor adjustments which the associate can easily identify (i.e., a single damaged unit), whereas the Receive by Item flow is intended for more substantial variations (i.e., total item count is off and item scans are needed to validate the count.) A user can modify the adjustment for a package until the next package is scanned. This feature allows a store associate to convert a package's receipt type from package to item on the fly, regardless of whether a variance exists or not. Once the next package is scanned, the previously scanned package is sent to the server for receipt. At this point, any adjustments must be performed using the Adjust Inventory function. Receive by Item When an associate begins receiving a package with a receipt type of item, they have the ability to receive against non-sellable store dispositions in addition to reporting over-receipts, missing units or unexpected items. A user can modify the adjustment for a package until the next package is scanned. Once the next package is scanned, the previously scanned package is sent to the server for receipt. At this point, any adjustments must be performed using the Adjust Inventory function. Note - Once a package is scanned, any adjustments must be reported before the next package is scanned. Pause/Resume Receiving by Item If a store associate encounters a network or device error while entering item data for a package, the store associate can resume receiving the same package on the same device or a different device once the error is resolved. If possible (i.e., in the case of network errors), it is recommended that the associate continues receiving on the same device so that any data stored on the device that could not be synced to the server can be recovered to avoid repeat scans. If not possible (i.e., a device problem where the device is inoperable) and the associate resumes on a different device, receiving for the last package must be repeated. The Resume Receiving Package service allows the store associate to continue receiving the same package. Receive Missed Packages Store associates can receive packages which are in Missed status after having been updated by the verify receipt auto-scheduler. Once a missed packaged is received, a supply event is triggered for the inventory system with transaction type as 'Adjustment'. The supply event has information about the relay attributes including package ID, order ID, and order details. Reference ID is the shipment ID, reference detail ID is item details and Reference Type ID is ASN ID. If shipment ID is NULL, then the reference ID will be Fulfillment ID. Additionally, the following information is sent to the Inventory Management for audit purposes when a missing package is received: Inventory Transaction Type - If the override store transaction type is configured for the store transaction type "Receipt Adjustment Missed Package", the inventory transaction type is populated with the override value. If no override is configured, the base value is sent. Inventory Transaction ID -  Fulfillment ID and package ID are sent to identify the receiving transaction. Receiving 'Built' Packages Packages for corporate transfers or store-initiated transfers can be received in 'Built' status. This can happen during exceptions such as: Package reaches the destination before the scheduled job to update the package to 'Shipped' status ran. Unexpected error occurs when the job scheduler attempts to move the package to 'Shipped' status If a built package is received, inventory is decremented from the origin store for the items and quantity of the package since in-transit inventory was not created. Unexpected or over-received items are not decremented from the origin store, only the expected package contents. Additionally, the following information is sent to Inventory Management for audit purposes: Inventory Transaction Type - If the override store transaction type is configured for the store transaction type "Origin Receipt Adjustment Built Package ", the inventory transaction type is populated with the override value. If no override is configured, the base value is sent. Inventory Transaction ID -  Fulfillment Id and Package Id are sent to identify the origin receipt adjustment transaction. Late ASN Match for Blind Receipts Functionality is available to match an ASN that systematically arrives late to packages that were already received via blind receiving. When an ASN is received, a primary check is made to find the order ID of the late ASN package to match with the order ID of the received blind package. Along with order ID match the package ID or tracking number of the late ASN package must also match the received blind package. If so, those receipt quantities are updated to the ASN package. The match removes the package from appearing on the Receive Inventory UI again as a duplicate package and allows the ASN to be verified. A message with the order number, package ID/tracking number and actual quantity received is also generated which can be used by external systems to reconcile the late arriving ASN package to the previously received blind package. Once an item match is found, the TransactionTypeId is sent as ASNVerify and the supplyTypeId is sent as Closed in the message to the Inventory component. This aids in closing out the ASNs that were imported at the later stage after the blind receiving process. A LateShipment packageEvent is sent from the Fulfillment to SIM component with the "LateShipment" attribute set to true along with the entire package details. This feature is controlled by a business configuration. Please refer to receiving configuration for more details. Exception Summary When the store associate tries to receive the package, which is in the in-packing or in the canceled state then an error message "Package not eligible to receive" is shown on the UI. The following table summarizes the exceptions available for each receipt type: Package Item Load Order Unknown Order Receive at Wrong Store Yes Yes Yes Yes No Receive Unexpected Item No Yes No Yes No Variance by Quantity No Yes No Yes No Resume Receiving by Item No Yes No Yes Yes Ship-to-Store Orders For ship-to-store orders, refer to the Order Fulfillment guide for additional information. Refer to the Staging process guide for additional information. RFID - Receiving Store associates can receive packages for store stock and customer (ship to store) orders using Radio Frequency Identification (RFID). When the RFID receiving business configuration is enabled, store associates can use a handheld RFID reader to read the unit-level RFID tags which are being received in packages. Overhead readers can also be leveraged. This allows for unit-level receiving accuracy to be achieved without having to scan the UPC barcode for each unit in the package. If a package contains both RFID tagged and non-tagged units, the non-tagged units can be received using traditional non-RFID means. RFID receiving requires additional resources on top of existing receiving resources that need to be provisioned for the user. Refer to the Store RFID guide for additional information. RFID receiving can be initiated by either directly reading tags over one or more boxes, or by scanning a package barcode and then reading the tags inside the box. Note: Support for receiving packages having a mix of RFID-tagged and untagged items is now available and is planned to be automatically enabled as part of the 25.4 market release. If you would like to opt in early, contact your Manhattan representative. RFID-tagged units with a corresponding Unit Inventory record in the "Inbound" status (tag feed in place) and those which do not have a Unit Inventory record for the current store (no tag feed in place) are eligible for handheld RFID Receiving. RFID-tagged units in other statuses are ignored during receiving. Non-RFID-tagged units need not and will not have a "Unit Inventory" record. Note: When RFID receiving is enabled, non-RFID tagged units need to be received by item, i.e., one unit at a time. Receipt type, if any, bridged in as part of the ASN, is ignored while receiving non-RFID tagged units when RFID receiving is enabled. Receive by reading tags Store associates begin waving the RFID handheld device over one or more package(s) they wish to receive. The Receiving UI builds a list of packages with those tags along with a X of Y progress bar for each package to denote how many units have been read versus what is expected. Store associates can also view the package details for each package in the list. Up to 2000 tags can be received in one receiving transaction. For quantities greater than this, split the receipt into multiple transactions of 2000 or less. Receive by scanning package barcode or tracking number If desired, users can also receive packages one at a time by scanning the package barcode or tracking number and then reading their tags. This can be useful when dealing with packages that the associate originally attempted to receive by reading tags, but found a discrepancy between the read versus expected tags and deferred to a later time in order to investigate further. RFID tag feed If available from the shipping location, a list of the RFID tags that reside in each package can be sent as part of the ASN. When a tag is read during Receiving, the application checks if the tag is found in an inbound ASN and if so, that package is added to the package list. If not, the application decodes the tag to obtain the GTIN-14 which is used to determine the item ID. If an in transit package is found for the item ID, it is added to the package list. No tag feed is expected for the non-RFID tagged items contained within a package. No tag feed If a list of EPCs was not sent for the packages, the application decodes each tag as it is read during receiving to extract the GTIN-14, which is then used to identify the item ID. If a single in transit package is found for the item ID, it is added to the package list and the X (of Y) counter is incremented as units are matched. If multiple packages have the same item ID, the tag is assigned to the earliest created package. That package is displayed, and the counter X (of Y) is incremented until X equals Y. Once all expected units for the current package are read, the system proceeds to load the next package whose EPC was not sent. Note : This feature is now available only for handheld devices and is planned to be automatically enabled as part of the upcoming 25.4 market release. If you would like to opt in early, contact your Manhattan representative. Disable auto-assign package Handheld Retailers have the option to disable automatic package assignment if the package does not contain EPCs feed. In such cases, associates must scan the package ID to receive it. If the reader is waved without scanning package ID, the system displays “Begin scanning” but won’t load any packages. To continue, a store associate must cancel the process and scan the package ID. For packages with a partial feed, waving the reader will load those packages where the received quantity (X) is less than the expected quantity (Y). The associate must then remove the partially received packages and scan package ID to receive them individually. This feature is controlled by a business configuration. Please refer to receiving configuration for more details. Note: It is recommended to enable the business configuration for STS orders to ensure accurate unit assignment during receiving. This is particularly critical when several STS orders contain the same item without EPC feeds, as it prevents units from being assigned to incorrect customer packages. Overhead If a package has no EPCs feed and the overhead reader reads them, these units will be added as “Unexpected” in the unit inventory table. The store associate must scan the package ID to complete receiving. If a package contains a partial EPC feed and the overhead reads them, these units will be updated as “Inbound” in the unit inventory table. The UI will load the package in partial receive mode, where the received quantity (X) is less than the expected quantity (Y). The associate must then remove the partially received packages and scan package ID to receive them individually. Note : If an EPC feed is not in place for shipments, the retailer should have an SOP in place to receive all inventory that is physically present in the store prior to starting the store count, or to shield those tags from the reader. In the initial store load mode, if the store does not complete the receiving process and the reader reads the shipment units, the corresponding unit tags will be added to the Unit Inventory table with an 'Available' status. However, in store count mode, those tags will be added with an 'Unexpected' status. Packages with tagged and non-tagged units For packages that contain tagged and non-tagged units, associates can first use the handheld reader to obtain the tagged units and then add the remaining units using traditional non-RFID means. A package containing any distribution of tagged or untagged units of the same or different items can be received. The item details UI can be used to scan the EPC or SGTIN or item barcode to perform receiving, and it allows to adjust any inadvertently scanned non-RFID-tagged units but it does not permit adjustments to RFID-tagged units. It is protected by permissions and it doesn't support RFID mode. Retailers can generate an SCI report summarizing how many units of an item were received by RFID versus traditional (non-RFID) means to help gain insights into how many untagged units of the item were received. Details below: Refer to the Package Detail of the items present in an ASN. At a Package Detail level, the ReceivedQuantity.Qty denotes the total number of units received from the vendor for the item. When the Package Detail is drilled down further, the count of Package Details Units for the respective item denotes the number of units of the item which were received from the vendor with RFID tags affixed to them. The difference between the ReceivedQuantity.Qty for the item and the count of its Package Detail Units signifies the count of units received untagged. RFID Blind Receiving Store associates can receive an unknown package for a known or unknown order using a handheld RFID reader. The blind RFID receiving process is similar to that of non-RFID blind receiving. After the package is scanned and identified as an unknown package, the contents of the package are captured by reading RFID tags rather than scanning item barcodes. Store associates have the ability to remove items if needed. The range set by default is "short". During this period, if the ASN arrives later to the system, then there is also a mechanism to reconcile the packages. Please refer to Late ASN Match for Blind Receipts for more details. Note: Blind receiving is currently not supported for packages having a mix of RFID-tagged and untagged items. RFID Exceptions Tag cannot be read If a store associate is unable to read the unit-level tag and a EPC or SGTIN barcode is present, they can scan that barcode to perform receiving. Exception Package If a variance exists between the number of expected versus read units, the store associate can remove a package from the list and receive it later when they have time to investigate the contents further. Unexpected items If a new tag for an item is read which is not expected in the package(s) that is eligible for receiving, a warning message is displayed to the user listing the item ID and quantity. The user is given the choice to receive the items or ignore them. Once an unexpected item is detected, the ability for the associate to receive the item is controlled by permission. Refer to the Store Inventory UI resources page for additional information. This functionality is available for both receive by scanning package barcode and receive by reading RFID tags. In the event of a package having a mix of RFID-tagged and untagged items, unexpected items of both kinds can be received using their respective input mechanisms. Unexpected Units If an unexpected unit is read for an expected item in the package, the unit is added as an unexpected unit in that package. For example, if 10 units of item A are expected for a package and an 11th unit of the item is read, it is added to the package. Wrong store receiving If the associate performs receiving by reading RFID tags, only packages for the correct store will be loaded onto the Receiving UI. The associate should first complete and submit the receipt for the correct store packages. Once done, they can receive the wrong store package by scanning the package barcode. If the user has permissions to receive wrong store packages, they can then read the tags in the package and submit the receipt. If the user scans a package barcode at the wrong store while performing the receiving process, a warning message appears. This message includes the package ID, origin facility, destination facility, and indicates whether the package is intended for store replenishment or customer pickup. Wrong store receiving is supported for both RFID (EPC) tag feed available or not available scenarios. Manual quantity entry While receiving, manual quantity entry is not permitted for RFID-tagged items. In the event of a package having a mix of RFID-tagged and untagged items, manual quantity inputs / adjustments should be done only for the non-RFID tagged items to continue reaping the benefits of greater inventory accuracy provided by the RFID technology. RFID Receive Missed Packages A store user can receive packages that are in a missed state using the RFID reader, provided the EPC feed is available. If the EPC feed is not available, the user must first scan the package barcode ID, then use the RFID reader to read the RFID tags to complete the receiving process or scan the SGTIN in barcode mode. Overhead RFID Receiving Stores with overhead readers can leverage them to pre-load packages on the Receiving UI without requiring the associate to use their handheld reader. Once the packages are loaded onto the UI, the receiving process is the same as handheld receiving. Refer to the Store RFID guide for information on how MAO determines which tags to pre-load on the Receiving UI. Note: Overhead RFID receiving is currently not supported for packages having a mix of RFID-tagged and untagged items. Receiving with Sublocation If a store has a sublocation configured for type non-selling area, then anytime units are received with RFID, the units are defaulted to the sublocations of type non-selling area. If there are more than one sublocation configured as non-selling, then the oldest based on created time is picked as the default sublocation. Updates When a package is received: If the unit inventory record already exists, the unit status is updated: To "Available" for Store Stock To "Reserved" for Customer Pickup (Ship to Store) If the unit inventory record does not exist, it is created in: "Available" status for Store Stock "Reserved" status for Customer Pickup (Ship to Store) For any unreceived units which were expected in the package but not read, the status is updated to "Missing". In the case of a package having a mix of RFID-tagged and untagged items, no unit inventory records are created for the untagged items; however, inventory supply updates are sent for both RFID-tagged and untagged items. Cross-Organization Ship to Store Orders When receiving ship to store packages in the store from another organization, the item's unit inventory status is updated as "Available" in the current organization's store. Pullback/Transfer Orders When receiving pullback/transfer packages in the store from another organization, the item's unit inventory status is updated as "Available" in the current organization's store. Store Initiated Transfers When receiving pullback/transfer packages in the store from another organization, the item's unit inventory status is updated as "Available" in the current organization's store. Refer to the process guide for additional information about cross-organization feature. Troubleshooting Issue Troubleshooting Tip Unable to see the packages on the receiving UI that the Overhead RFID reader has read. Ensure that the Store RFID outbound message type "PendingReceiptUnitInventoryEventMSGType" is copied from the base profile to the custom profile. Note: Ensure that the Profile Purpose ID "srf::messaging" is copied from the base profile to the custom profile. Ensure that the SIM inbound message type "PendingReceiptUnitInventoryEventMSGType" is copied from the base profile to the custom profile. Note: Ensure that the Profile Purpose ID "sim::messaging" is copied from the base profile to the custom profile. The EPC status is not updated to "Available" after receiving the store stock package. Ensure that the fulfillment outbound message type "ReceivedPackageEventMSGType" is copied from the base profile to the custom profile. Note: Ensure that the Profile Purpose ID "ful::messaging" is copied from the base profile to the custom profile. Ensure that the SIM inbound message type "PendingReceiptUnitInventoryEventMSGType" is copied from the base profile to the custom profile. Note: Ensure that the Profile Purpose ID "sim::messaging" is copied from the base profile to the custom profile. During RFID receiving, packages or tags are missing Before receiving the packages, make sure that item unit statuses are not marked as "Unexpected." This can happen when the DC or store ships RFID-enabled items without the EPC feed, and a store associate performs a store count prior to receiving the RFID packages. In such cases, the system records the EPCs as "Unexpected," which prevents them from being received later. STS and store replenishment fulfillments are not being created in the system for ASN shipped from the DC Ensure that the Profile Purpose ID "ful::messaging" is copied from the base profile to the custom profile. Receiving Store Returns Manhattan Active® Omni Store Inventory Management supports verification and receipt of "customer not present" return packages delivered to stores. Refer to the Customer Not Present Store Returns page for detailed information. Services The APIs listed in the following table are referenced in this document. Refer to the API documentation for additional details on each service. Service Component Group Service Endpoint List Related Packages SIM Store Receipt Controller sim/api/sim/receiving/listRelatedPackages/{packageIdOrTrackingNbr} Receive SIM Store Receipt Controller sim/api/sim/receiving/receive Delete intermittent scans SIM Store Receipt Controller sim/api/sim/receiving/deleteIntermittentScan Resume Receiving Package SIM Store Receipt Controller sim/api/sim/receiving/resumeReceivingPackage Reject package received at load level SIM Store Receipt Controller sim/api/sim/receiving/rejectloadReceivingPackage List Expected Packages For Store Fulfillment Packages-controller fulfillment/api/fulfillment/packages/listPackagesForStore Submit Package SIM Store Receipt Controller sim/api/sim/receiving/submitpackage Get Item Unit Info Store RFID RF Operations Controller storerfid/api/storerfid/getItemUnitInfo Decode EPC to SGTIN Store RFID EPC Decode Controller storerfid/api/storerfid/decode/epc-to-sgtin Get package details by package ID Fulfillment Fulfillment Receive Controller fulfillment/api/fulfillment/packages/getPackageByPackageId/{packageId} List packages for receiving by item Unit ID Fulfillment Fulfillment Receive Controller fulfillment/api/fulfillment/packages/listPackagesByUnitIds List packages for receiving by item Code ID Fulfillment Packages Controller fulfillment/api/fulfillment/packages/listPackagesByItemCodes Receive Packages by EPC IDs. SIM Store Receipt Controller sim/api/sim/receive/packages/byepc Create or update unit inventory records Store RFID Unit Inventory Controller storerfid/api/storerfid/unitInventory/processUnitInventoryEvents Refer to the Package Detail of the items present in an ASN. At a Package Detail level, the ReceivedQuantity.Qty denotes the total number of units received from the vendor for the item. When the Package Detail is drilled down further, the count of Package Details Units for the respective item denotes the number of units of the item which were received from the vendor with RFID tags affixed to them. The difference between the ReceivedQuantity.Qty for the item and the count of its Package Detail Units signifies the count of units received untagged. If the unit inventory record already exists, the unit status is updated: To "Available" for Store Stock To "Reserved" for Customer Pickup (Ship to Store) If the unit inventory record does not exist, it is created in: "Available" status for Store Stock "Reserved" status for Customer Pickup (Ship to Store) For any unreceived units which were expected in the package but not read, the status is updated to "Missing". In the case of a package having a mix of RFID-tagged and untagged items, no unit inventory records are created for the untagged items; however, inventory supply updates are sent for both RFID-tagged and untagged items.