# Release 23.1

**Permalink:** release-23.1
**Path:** Home/Release Notes/Manhattan Active® Omni/2023/Release 23.1
**Content Length:** 41,099 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:52:15.313520

---

Home››Release Notes››Manhattan Active® Omni››2023 ››Release 23.1 Manhattan Active® Omni Release Notes 23.1 Release Date: 01/6/2023 Manhattan Active® Omni Release Notes 23.1Order ManagementEnterprise InventorySegmentation of Future InventoryContinuous Allocation - Inventory Shortage and Order Prioritization Scheduling - Carrier Pick Time by Delivery Method, Carrier, and Service Level Scheduling - Cut Off Time by Location, Delivery Method, Carrier, and Service Level Batch Release - Enhanced Filtering of AllocationsOrder SellingCustomer-Driven Fulfillment: Integration with Manhattan Active® Warehouse Management (MAWM) for CancellationCustomer-Driven Fulfillment: Cancellation of Ship to Store ItemsConsolidate Refund TransactionsTransactional Email and Text NotificationDigital Self ServiceAdd Alternate Pickup Person Return Confirmation Text MessageSettlement Failure ResolutionDetailed Refund SummaryContact CenterDisplay User-friendly Org Name in the Org Selection Drop-down Customer EngagementTeam-Based Ticketing CE Usability Enhancements Manage Past Due Cases Defining Mandatory Attributes for the Case Details UIPoint of Sale (POS)POS PaymentPayment Communication Failure HandlingPayment Plugin Server to Server functionalityStore Customer EngagementCustomer Dashboard with activity feed and purchase collage.Store Inventory & Fulfillment (SIF)Store Order FulfillmentPicking - Locate Item using RFIDLate Order Modification - Cancel Ship to Store OrderLate Order Modification - Add Alternate Pickup PersonDeveloper DocumentationStore Inventory ManagementRFID Store CountRFID-based Pullbacks and TransfersRFID-based Store-Initiated TransfersRFID Unit Inventory EventsStore CommonDevice and OS SupportSingle Logout from External ApplicationManhattan ProActive™Extension Pack DeploymentData SamplingAPI Router Developer Documentation Order Management Enterprise Inventory Segmentation of Future Inventory Inventory can now be segmented at the time of PO generation, allowing businesses to expose a subset of future units to various demand channels. Inventory syncs and supply events have been enhanced to honor segmentation information during PO creation, updates, ASN creation, and receipts. Purchasing systems can indicate the quantity of a unit to be segmented to a particular channel, customer, business (segment) and future updates to that PO, such as ASN creation and receipt, will honor the segment of the purchase order. Note: This change is enabled by default for new customers and existing customers will need to enable this through an API. Related: Segmentation Continuous Allocation - Inventory Shortage and Order Prioritization Continuous allocation is enhanced to allocate higher priority backorders by deallocating the lower priority order from a set of predefined locations in a location group. A maximum of five locations can be added to a location group using the Continuous Allocation Location Group UI. Related: Continuous Allocation Note: This change is enabled by default for new customers and existing customers will need to enable this through an API. Scheduling - Carrier Pick Time by Delivery Method, Carrier, and Service Level Prior to this release, a location could hold a unique carrier pick time across delivery method, carrier, and service level. With the 23.1 release, a location can now be configured with a different carrier pick time for each delivery method (ship to store or ship to address) and for each carrier/service level combination. Note: This change is available through configuration. Related: How Scheduling Works Configuration Scheduling - Cut Off Time by Location, Delivery Method, Carrier, and Service Level In 23.1 a new scheduling concept is added for the delivery date APIs: the concept of cut off time. The principle is that once the cut off time is configured, all orders placed after that cut off time will only be worked on the next day. This impacts delivery dates computation. The cut off time can be configured by location, delivery method, carrier, and service level. It is also returned in the response of the delivery date APIs for the selling channel to be able to display an "Order before ... to have your order today" in relevant situations (like pickup at store orders or express shipment). The cut off time is honored by the delivery dates API and standalone promising calls with the 'ConsiderCutOffTime' header tag set to true. Once the order is created, cut off time is not considered anymore as it is assumed that orders should be released as fast as possible to the fulfilling location. Note: This change is available through configuration. Related: How Scheduling Works Configuration Batch Release - Enhanced Filtering of Allocations Prior to the release, the batch release process could filter orders based on order or order line criteria. For orders with requested delivery dates, this resulted in the job unnecessarily picking up orders prior to the release date. With 23.1 comes an enhancement of the batch release process that allows filtering orders by allocating detailed information, such as the “Latest Release Date”. This allows the batch release process to only select orders that are eligible for release based on the release template configuration. Note: This change is available by default for all customers. New customers are encouraged to use the new batch release process (or "job based batch release"). Existing customers do not have to transition out of the existing batch release process (or "agent based batch release") unless they use allocation level filter criteria on release templates and order volume increases. Related: How Batch Release Works Order Selling Customer-Driven Fulfillment: Integration with Manhattan Active® Warehouse Management (MAWM) for Cancellation Manhattan Active® Omni and MAWM integration is certified for late order cancellation of ship to home items. Customer-Driven Fulfillment: Cancellation of Ship to Store Items Ship to store and merge items can now be cancelled after fulfillment has started. Manhattan Active® Omni delivers a seamless late order cancellation of ship to store line experience through Digital Self-Service (DSS) or Contact Center in conjunction with Store Inventory & Fulfillment (SIF). Cancellation supported before first leg is packed and after the item is received at the store. Note: This feature is controlled by configuration in Manhattan Active® Omni Order Management and Store Inventory & Fulfillment (SIF) Related: Late Order Cancellation Consolidate Refund Transactions Manhattan Active® Omni now consolidates refund transactions when refunding an order paid with multiple tender types to a new payment method. If this feature is enabled, all refund transactions for a new payment method are consolidated into a single transaction. This is applicable only for "New payment method" refund behavior and not for follow-on refund behavior. Related: Refunds Note: This feature is controlled by configuration and is enabled by default. Transactional Email and Text Notification Manhattan Active® Omni now generates email and text notifications when partial or full quantity is cancelled by the system for various reasons, like Fulfillment Short, Auto or Batch process to Cancel Backordered Units. Related: Transactional Email Transactional Text Note: This feature is controlled by configuration and disabled by default. Digital Self Service Add Alternate Pickup Person Customers can now add an alternate pickup person to a pickup order through Digital Self Service after the order has been released. Note: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Add Alternate Pickup Person Return Confirmation Text Message Customers can now be notified via text message when return orders are created and confirmed. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Transational Texts Settlement Failure Resolution Settlement failures often require a substantial manual effort to try to recover, whether by cold-calling customers or writing off failed payments. We are introducing two features to increase settlement conversion rates and reduce the manual effort spent trying to recover failed payments. The first is to automatically retry a settlement transaction a few times if it fails. The automatic retry should resolve some portion of the settlement failures, but for the payments that still fail to settle, Manhattan Active Omni can send an email to the customer and ask them to add a new credit card to Digital Self-Service. These two features can be enabled independently or together, depending on business needs. Note: These features are controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Payment Resolution Detailed Refund Summary The refund summary now displays additional charge, tax, and discount information for return orders. Note: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Returns & Exchanges Contact Center Display User-friendly Org Name in the Org Selection Drop-down Users can now view a user-friendly version of the organization Id in the org selection drop-down within the contact center and customer engagement pages. Related: Cross-Organization Visibility Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is enabled by default for new customers and disabled by default for existing customers. Customer Engagement Team-Based Ticketing Case management now supports team-based ticketing. Teams can be created and managed in a configuration UI, without the help of IT, or they can be managed via API if preferred. Agents can filter and sort by team in the Case List UI. Teams can also be used in saved or default filters, so agents can log in for the day and automatically see the open cases assigned to their team. During case creation, if a user selects a team, then the assignee dropdown displays only users assigned to that team. Related: Case Management Note: This feature is automatically enabled. CE Usability Enhancements The below features are introduced to improve usability within customer engagement: The field placement on the Create Case and Edit Case UIs has been enhanced to improve the look and feel of these pages. Some of these changes include: Consistent vertical spacing between fields Text boxes have been made wider The Due Date and References sections have been moved up A Sub-Category filter column has been introduced in the Case List UI so that agents can filter cases by sub-category. Quick linking has been added from the Order Status and Edit Order pages to view related cases. Default filters are now supported on the Case List UI, so cases are displayed without additional clicks. Configuration UIs have been added for Interaction Reason, Case Resolution, Case Category, and Case Sub-Category. The Case ID is now displayed when the user creates or edits a case on the case list page. The "From" email is displayed on the incoming email interaction on the Case Details UI. Replying to incoming emails always prepopulates the "From' address in the "To Address" field on the reply email. Related: Case Management - View Linked Cases Case Management - Set Default Filter Note: This change is enabled by default for all customers Manage Past Due Cases Users can now identify and filter overdue cases from the case list UI. Easily identify overdue cases - Overdue cases are highlighted in red in the case list UI so that it is easy for contact center agents to quickly identify overdue cases and start working on them from the case list UI Filter and sort by due date - Filter for all "Past" cases is added to the existing due date filter. Related: Case Management Note:This change is enabled by default for all customers Defining Mandatory Attributes for the Case Details UI Organizations can now define mandatory attributes using the Case UI Display Config. Attributes can be set as mandatory for all records, or mandatory for a specific case category. This applies to out of the box attributes and extended attributes. In addition, customers can identify additional columns to be displayed in the 'Reference' section for a specific case category value. These columns can be set as mandatory or optional. This is helpful when an organization has a significant number of reference columns and wants to narrow the displayed values to those pertinent to a specific case category value. Related: Case Management Note: This feature can be enabled via configuration. Point of Sale (POS) POS Payment Payment Communication Failure Handling The POS Payment process has been enhanced to provide more flexible failure handling for electronic payment methods requiring authorization (e.g., credit, debit, gift cards) in situations where the auth/settlement response for an attempted payment is not received by the application. Previously in these situations, the transaction was auto-canceled and the associate compelled to re-ring the transaction from scratch. With the improved functionality, the transaction is preserved and the associate may attempt payment again, via the same or different card or even payment type - i.e., if the payment terminal is not responding, change from credit to cash. Related: POS Payment Process guide This feature is controlled by Change in Behavior, "POS Payment Failure Handling". Accounts which are already deployed on MAO POS will automatically be switched to the new behavior 12 months after this market release.  For new customer environments created after this market release, new failure handling will automatically be enabled by default. Please refer to the behavior change document here for additional information on this process and to learn to take advantage of this feature early for testing and training. Payment Plugin Server to Server functionality The current POS Payment Plugin has been enhanced to support server-to-server communication w. the payment gateway. Previously the plugin only communicated to payment provider via the payment terminal. This meant for custom implementations Professional Services needed to create a custom plugin in each case. The new plugin calls the provider directly.  The provider then will engage the payment terminal for required communication.  There are also user exits provided for more flexible customization. Note: Currently this new base feature has been validated against simulated request/response data. Related: Payment Plugin guide Store Customer Engagement Customer Dashboard with activity feed and purchase collage. The customer dashboard within POS has been updated to provide greater insight into the customer the user is working with. The updated dashboard will show high level purchase information in reverse-chronological order, and the related customer notes within the activity feed. Users will also be able to pin customer notes to the top of the feed for quick viewing. In addition to the  activity feed, the dashboard will have the purchase collage. The collage provides high-level information on customer purchases by providing item images along with the size and date of purchase. This allows the user to quickly see what type of items the customer typically purchases along with recent sizing to help in sending across customized selling recommendations. Related: Customer Dashboard Note: This feature is controlled by Change in Behavior, "Disable Customer Dashboard", the CE license, and the sub configurations. If the retailer already has the existing customer dashboard, they will automatically begin to see the new dashboard 12 months after this market release. For new customer environments created after this market release, this feature will automatically be enabled. Please refer to the behavior change document here for additional information on this process and to learn to take advantage of this feature early for testing and training. Store Inventory & Fulfillment (SIF) Store Order Fulfillment Picking - Locate Item using RFID Store associates can now utilize a handheld RFID reader if they need assistance locating an item during customer order picking. Based on permissions, a locate action in Prepare Pickups and Prepare Shipments directs the user to the closest unit of the item based on their current location. Visual and audible indicators increase or decrease depending on whether the user is moving closer or farther from the unit. A "next tag" action allows the associate to find another unit of the same item which directs them to the next closest tag based on their current location. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration and permissions. The configuration is disabled by default. Related: Store RFID Picking Process Configuration Late Order Modification - Cancel Ship to Store Order Refer to Late Order Modification - Cancel Ship to Store Order feature in the Order Management section of this document. Late Order Modification - Add Alternate Pickup Person Refer to Late Order Modification - Add Alternate Pickup Person feature in the Order Management section of this document. Developer Documentation The Notify API has been added to the featured API documentation on the following page -  https://developer.manh.com. Store Inventory Management RFID Store Count Store associates can now perform a store count by using handheld RFID readers to read unit-level tags. Counting via handheld readers allows retailers to count store inventory in a fraction of the time compared with traditional barcode scanning. The associate is provided with audio and visual feedback as tags are being read along with the overall count progress. The units expected, units counted, missing units, and the unexpected units are displayed. Item information is available for missing and unexpected tags, and associates have the ability to remove unexpected tags from the count. Multiple store associates can count the store simultaneously. Submitting the count sends inventory updates to Inventory Management for all dispositions/supply types in the store. A configuration defines the minimum count percentage that must be met with, to submit the count, to prevent unintentional inventory updates. A UI is available for corporate users to monitor the count status. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration and permissions. The configuration is disabled by default. Related: Store Count Store RFID Configuration RFID-based Pullbacks and Transfers Store associates can now pack pullback/transfer orders by reading unit-level tags with a handheld RFID reader. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Store associates can now pack pullback/transfer orders by reading unit-level tags instead of scanning item barcodes. Packing with RFID tags ensures every unit's status is maintained and accounted for, improving overall accuracy of inventory, while also reducing the handling time. Related: Store RFID Pullbacks and Transfers Process Pullback and Transfers Configuration RFID-based Store-Initiated Transfers Store associates can now pack store-initiated transfer orders by reading unit-level tags instead of scanning item barcodes. Packing with RFID tags ensures every unit's status is maintained and accounted for, improving overall accuracy of inventory, while also reducing the handling time. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Store RFID Store Initiated Transfers Process Store Initiated Transfers Configuration RFID Unit Inventory Events Retailers can now enable outbound events which are triggered when an update is made to the Unit Inventory table. This table stores information about each RFID tag, and the events can be used by their own systems or custom requirements. A configurable change detection template defines what columns trigger the outbound event. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Store RFID Configuration Store Common Device and OS Support The Store application now supports iPadOS 16 and the Zebra ET51 tablet (Android version.) For a full list of supported devices and operating systems, refer to the Certified Technology page. Single Logout from External Application Users can now logout from any external application using the URI schema (<url_scheme>://ExternalAppLogout)  which in turn aids in logging out the MAO Store application on the devices. The users can also configure a delay in ms for the login screen to display, and the post logout event is triggered. Manhattan ProActive™ The v23.1 release of Manhattan Active Supply Chain adds enhancements to Extension Pack Deployment, Data Sampling in ProActive. In addition, further enhancements have been made to the Supply Chain Desktop UI Extension Editor. Extension Pack Deployment Enabled the deploy option to allow extension packs to be deployed to additional profiles. In addition, extension packs can be re-deployed in circumstances where changes need to be made for a successful deployment. The Manage Deployment action is now available for Deployed Extension Packs. This screen can be used to enable or disable the API extensions added by the Extension Pack for specific organizations. The user can turn off the Extension Pack completely too. Please note that this change does not impact DB extensions and is supported for UI extensions only at this time. Data Sampling When viewing sample data in the configurator for an Extension Handler (Composite APIs, User Exits, or Events), the user can now select the profile they would like to view the sample data for. This allows the user to view data samples of extension handlers tied to each specific profile. Please note that this change does not impact DB extensions. Support for UI extensions will be available in a future release. API Router In addition to being able to create system-level API, Router override support has been added for specifying overrides at the profile level. Users can select a service Id to view and edit overrides for the selected profile(s). Developer Documentation Additional "How To" examples have been added to the supply event and the promising API on https://developer.manh.com