# Release 20.1

**Permalink:** release-notes-20.1
**Path:** Home/Release Notes/Manhattan Active® Omni/2020/Release 20.1
**Content Length:** 35,145 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:52:45.263342

---

Home››Release Notes››Manhattan Active® Omni››2020 ››Release 20.1 Manhattan Active™ Omni Release Notes 20.1 Release Date: 1.3.2020 Order ManagementManage Orders and Addresses Without Postal Codes or StateSort Order Reasons in the Customer Service UIInventory Audit - Ability to Persist Additional Inventory Attributes for Order UpdatesOrder Analysis UI - Support North America MapAbility to View/Add/Edit Case notesCustomize the Customer DashboardEnhanced Order Time LineAllow Price Override for New Style Exchange LinesStore & Inventory FulfillmentStore Order Fulfillment - PickingDeselect all FulfillmentsStore Order Fulfillment - PackingFulfillment Visibility during PackingSequencing of Package TypesSuppress Package Type DefaultStore Order Fulfillment - BOPISSkip Customer SignatureAutomatically Print Pickup SlipsStore Inventory ManagementInventory Audit Transaction InformationSIM Data PurgeDevice and OS SupportPoint of SaleAutomated Installation/Upgrade of Resilient Cloud for POSUpgrades on Central CloudConfiguration on Resilient CloudStreamlined On-Line/Off-line to On-line Application TransitionEdge Health DashboardEdge Server ListAbility to generate Alerts for Inbound sync jobsEdge Server LoggingAuto-populate City, State based on Zip Code and CountryStreamline Address EntryOriginal Price DisplayiOS 13 Upgrade Order Management Manage Orders and Addresses Without Postal Codes or State It is not mandatory for countries in the world to require a state and/or postal codes in their addresses. Some countries provide postal codes for a subset of addresses. A new configuration is provided to define whether postal code and/or state is mandatory for a specific country. The customer service UI is enhanced to dynamically compute validation of address format depending of the address country. Depending on the country's address format, postal code or state may not be mandatory in the addresses persisted in the system. The system is now able to validate the generic format of the destination addresses and allocate only the orders with the correct address format for the country. Promising and allocation are now supported for Ship To Addresses without postal codes for countries where postal code is not mandatory. For countries that are configured to have postal codes it is mandatory, the promising request will not allocate if it does not have a postal code. There will be a validation error sent back to the calling system (internal or external) indicating that one of the mandatory fields “Postal Code” is not present on the incoming request. This will ensure that order management does not send any bad addresses to the downstream fulfillment systems. State being mandatory or not, this will not impact allocation as there is no validation for state within promising. Order Fulfillment Optimization parameter "Location Proximity" will not be supported when an order address does not have a postal code. Order Analysis map will not be rendered for addresses without postal codes as part of this release. Sort Order Reasons in the Customer Service UI Ability to define specific sorting sequence for order reason codes in the customer service UI is now available. The Sequence number can be specified at the time of creating or updating the reason codes. This feature can be used to show the most frequently used values on top of the list to enable easy selection. Sorting is available on the following order reason entities: Cancellation reason codes, appeasement reason codes, price override reason codes, return reason codes and SnH override reason codes. Note: There is no UI available in this release to update the values. All updates are done directly through API. Inventory Audit - Ability to Persist Additional Inventory Attributes for Order Updates To capture detailed transaction information resulting in inventory updates the inventory supply event includes two attributes - "InventoryTransactionType" & "InventoryTransactionValue". These details can be populated through the supply event by external systems such as POS, the Host, WMS or any store systems. As a part of this release, all inventory updates which are triggered by order events such as Ship/Pickup/Short as well as Sale/Return from POS (Point of Sale) system are enhanced to persist key transaction related information in these two attributes. For instance, when an order is shipped, order event - "Ship" is sent from Host system which internally triggers supply update. In such case, "InventoryTransactionType" as 'Order Ship' and "InventoryTransactionValue" as 'OrderId:ReleaseId' will be persisted, and audit record will be saved. Similarly for other order events - Order Pick, Order Short, POS Sale, and POS Return, system values will be saved. System values of InventoryTransactionType are provided as seed data in the OrderEventTransactionType table. These values can be overridden by using the /order/API/order/OrderEventTransactionTypeOverride   API. "InventoryTransactionValue" cannot be overridden, it will be 'OrderId:ReleaseId' for Ship/Short/PickUp and 'OrderId' for POS Sale/Return. Note: Because of the length constraint of "InventoryTransactionId", a new attribute "InventoryTransactionValue" has been added which will be mapped to the "InventoryTransactionId" attribute. Hence supply event interface will remain unchanged and request should still be sent with "InventoryTransactionId" but internally system will populate "InventoryTransactionValue" in supply record, inventory audit data and relay events. Order Analysis UI - Support North America Map Once an order is created, the allocation engine determines the most optimal location for fulfilling an order. During the optimization process, multiple locations are evaluated and the most cost effective location is selected as the location to fulfill the order from. User can view the details of the source and evaluated locations along with their costs in "Order Analysis" UI. Fulfillment location, evaluated locations  and the ship to destination are plotted on the Map. This map currently supports US and Europe. Note: As part of  this release support has been expanded to include North America and Canada. Ability to View/Add/Edit Case notes Currently the CSR can only add a description while creating the case initially, there is no provision for the CSR to add additional notes to the case based on conversations with the customer at various stages of the case. With this new "notes" functionality the CSR will have the ability to create and capture a case note from the View Case Details UI, persist the note in the backend and display/modify the note in the case timeline. The notes can be seen as a part of the case in the case timeline section. With each note you will be able to see the entire note, created username and created timestamp. The notes will also have an Edit option that the user can click on if the user had permission to edit, if not the edit button will be greyed out. An edited note will also have information like updated by username and updated timestamp across the note. Note: If the user does not have required permission/grant to add a note, then the entire add note panel will not be visible to the user in the case timeline section. Customize the Customer Dashboard The Customer Dashboard includes a set of customer metrics provided out of the box such as lifetime value, purchase history, and fulfillment performance. With the 20.1 release, retailers are able to hide base metrics and insert custom metrics to empower CSRs with the information most relevant to their business. For example, a retailer may replace the appeasement metric available out of the box with points and status information from their loyalty system. Enhanced Order Time Line Enhanced order time line to capture more user events: Item removal Item shipping method, delivery method and ShipToLocation updates Order and order line Add / Remove / Update Notes Apply header and line return fee Override header and line return fee Digital goods release Allow Price Override for New Style Exchange Lines This feature allows CSRs to perform price override on new style exchange lines while creating a return order. The function is controlled through Call Center configuration "Allow overrides on new style exchange" and specific grant "customerservice::order::override-exchangeprice". If the configuration is turned off or the grant is not associated to the user, then this functionality cannot be used. Store & Inventory Fulfillment Store Order Fulfillment - Picking Deselect all Fulfillments While building a picklist, store associates can now easily deselect all preselected fulfillments with one button click. This allows an associate to quickly deselect the fulfillments preselected based on maximum batch size and manually add in a few priority fulfillments to pick near the end of their shift. This functionality is available for both pickup and shipment orders. Store Order Fulfillment - Packing Fulfillment Visibility during Packing During packing, the list of orders that make up the selected picklist are now displayed to the store associate. Associates now have the ability to directly select which order on the picklist to pack. This is an alternative to the existing process of the associate scanning an item and the system finding a matching order to pack. Sequencing of Package Types The ability to define the sequence in which package types are listed on UIs is now available. Sequence numbers can be updated when creating or editing the list of available package types. This gives retailers the ability to control the order of the package type list, and could be used to show the most frequently used values at top of the selection lists. Suppress Package Type Default Retailers can now systematically force store associates to select a specific package type during packing, avoiding the possibility that the associate selects the defaulted value out of convenience. Separate configurations control whether the package type is defaulted or suppressed for customers' orders and pullbacks/transfers and store-initiated transfers. If the configuration is enabled, the package type is not defaulted on the screen and the user must select a value. These configurations are turned off by default. Store Order Fulfillment - BOPIS Skip Customer Signature Retailers who do not wish to electronically capture customer signatures during the confirm pickup process can now skip the signature capture based on configuration. The customer signature screen is bypassed if the configuration is enabled. This configuration is turned off by default. Automatically Print Pickup Slips Pickup slips can now be printed automatically at the conclusion of picking. Based on permissions, a check box is now displayed to the associate on the review and submit screen. If the check box is selected (default behavior), pickup slips are printed. If the user wishes to suppress printing, the check box can be deselected by the associate. When printing occurs, all fulfillments on the picklist are consolidated into a single PDF. Store Inventory Management Inventory Audit Transaction Information The inventory transaction type and a unique transaction ID are now populated on all inventory supply events generated by Store Inventory Management (SIM.) The ability exists for retailers to override the base inventory transaction type value with a custom value, if desired. Changes are also made to the audit information that is generated for store-initiated transfers. The ability to override the base inventory transaction type with a custom value is now available, in addition to the following changes: 1) ASNCreate supply event: The value is changed from "Store Initiated Transfer Package Shipped" to "Ship Store Transfer". 2) Adjustment supply event: The value is changed from "Store Initiated Transfer Package Shipped" to "Ship". 3) Inventory transaction ID is now populated with fulfillmentID, in addition to the packageID. SIM Data Purge The following SIM data can now be purged to remove old records: Store receipt data is now included in the existing fulfillment archive/purge process. Once a fulfillment is selected for archive/purge based on the existing fulfillment archive/purge configuration, the corresponding store receipt(s) and inventory log entries are also purged. Inventory adjustments that are approved or declined are purged based on an inventory adjustment purge age configuration (specified in days.) Inventory log entries corresponding to the inventory adjustments are also purged. To enable this, job scheduler configuration must be setup. Device and OS Support Manhattan Active Store now supports iOS and iPadOS 13. Support for the iPad Mini 5 has also been added. For a full list of supported devices, please check the Supported Technology page. Point of Sale Automated Installation/Upgrade of Resilient Cloud for POS Prior to this release, Resilient Cloud installation and upgrade was a manual and time-consuming process. Further, the manual process required experienced personnel to be onsite or connected remotely to the Manhattan Active store system in order to install or update Resilient Cloud. The 20.1 release solves this challenge and offers a robust set of automation tools and processes whereby corporate or IT administrators can configure, create and schedule automated procedures from Manhattan Active Config UI in the cloud. This automated process may be configured for a defined date and time window for targeted installations. The entire process is remotely managed and can be configured for all store locations within one or more organizations. These configurable, automated procedures are available for first-time new installations and for upgrades. Additionally, these automated installation processes can be defined for specific Locations or Location Groups. Upgrades on Central Cloud Access to this new feature support is provided in Manhattan Active Omni-facade Config UI, operating in the cloud which has been updated to support automated installation. For targeted, select location installations, the credentialed user must create a deployment group or groups and add locations and Edge Server ID’s that will need to be upgraded or installed. Within a given deployment group, each location will have a new “caller.” The caller will initiate the scheduler process for installation by providing Edge Server files from a wrapper service that will invoke the download of a packaged set of installation files and scripts, during the configured date and time window. Check the step by step configurations. · Identify the locations which need resilient cloud install or upgrade. · Create “heartbeat” for that location, if heartbeat exists, then reset the heartbeat · Create a deployment group and automated scheduler and add identified location(s) · Choose the date and the time window to execute the process. · Choose the edge server files that you want to install or upgrade. Configuration on Resilient Cloud Upon completion of configuration set up in the cloud, each resilient cloud server that is configured for installation or upgrade will need to have a new "Edge Installer," a utility tool. Edge Installer makes calls to central using a default heartbeat interval to get object store credentials and files slated for upgrade. These files are subsequently downloaded, and automation scripts are executed perform the automated installation on the designated Windows-10 Resilient Cloud/Edge Server device. There are more pre-requisites and configuration steps required on resilient cloud for the automated process. The details can be found in the Implementation Guide. The link to Implementation Guides will be shared in the market release notes. Streamlined On-Line/Off-line to On-line Application Transition Currently the online and offline STORE applications for MAO's Point of Sale are separate applications. Users were not always aware when the system is offline to the cloud, or when they were back online. The new streamlined approach in this release provides in-app notification to users when connectivity is lost and also when connectivity returns. When loss of connectivity occurs, the user will now be prompted to Exit the current application, or to switch to the other application based on Edge Server availability. Users will no longer leave the application UI or exit to the Desktop. There is no longer a need to manually launch the secondary, off-line store application; it will launch automatically upon selection, keeping the user within the Manhattan application UI. Details: When this feature is enabled, users of the online application will be notified when the POS application loses connectivity—either network or cloud service connectivity. If the location does not have an Edge Server configured, or the Edge Server is not up and running, the user will be prompted to exit the application and will be returned to the login screen If the location does have an Edge Server, the user will have an additional option to switch to the offline application via a red-theme screen. When choosing this option, the offline application will be launched, and the online application will be closed out automatically. Once the system detects sufficient connectivity and online availability (able to reach the Manhattan Active cloud), the user will again be notified by a green-themed screen. The user can choose to remain in the offline application to continue processing an in-flight transaction and then chose the option to switch back to online, OR If the user is not processing an in-flight transaction, they can choose to switch back to the online application. At any time, the user can manually attempt to switch back to the online application, as long as there is no in-flight transaction in the Cart or a supported Back Office transaction (Pay in/Out, Open/Close, Cash Pick up, Deposit, Open/Close Till, Reconcile Till or Disengage Till). Edge Health Dashboard Retailers who have Edge Servers in various store locations need to have visibility to the state of the servers at any given time. Knowing that these servers are up and running on the latest version of code is vital. The new Edge Health Dashboard will provide this insight with exception-based dashboard. Additionally, retailers will have the ability to view the overall health of all servers across location groups and the enterprise, including those that do not fall into these exceptions. The Edge Health Dashboard will automatically refresh every minute to display the most up-to-date mission critical information. The dashboard consists of five new modules: No Heartbeat, Unprocessed Transactions, Base Code Version, Installation Status and Inbound Sync Status. Users can choose to View All data which and navigate to the full list of edge servers with details for each module, OR users can select single-list items that will navigate them to the Edge Server List with a pre applied filter based on the exception they navigated from. (Ex: Failed Installation: upon tap/click of the UI line, the user is navigated to edge server list with only those servers with a failed installation status visible.) No Heartbeat: This module will display the number of edge servers with no heartbeat This list will display the location ID of the store who's edge server has no heartbeat Unprocessed Transactions: This module will display the total number of unprocessed transactions across all locations and servers. This list will display the location ID of any store (and the named Edge Servers) where the edge server has unprocessed transactions and will show the count for temporarily unprocessed transactions in that location. Transactions will include both Order and Back Office transactions Base Code Version: This list will display the location ID of the base code version for all edge servers along with the number of edge servers currently running on the code Installation status: This list will display only for failed installations and will highlight the number of servers whose installations failed. To see successful installations, the user can always navigate to the edge server list Inbound Sync Status: This list will display the following states: Failed, In Progress Over Threshold and Consecutive Failures, as well as the number of servers in each status. Both In-Progress Over Threshold and Consecutive Failures can be configured to the retailer’s specifications Edge Server List The edge server list will allow the retailer to view the overall status of all servers, including those without any exceptions or failures. This list shows all details of each module from the dashboard, as well as the Deployment Group for installation Inbound Sync status will show additional details including the last attempt, last successful import and the number of days since last successful IMPORT Deployment details will show additional details including the last attempt, last successful INSTALLATION and the update window on the scheduler Users can choose to select one or more servers from the list and can view even more details Ability to generate Alerts for Inbound sync jobs In case of failures during Inbound sync process or unexpected delays to completion, the system is enhanced to generates new alerts, so that the relevant user can take informed actions. This is accomplished using data collected from processes taking place on the edge sever, which are also synchronized with the central cloud environment. Such data is summarized in a time series format. To generate these alerts the retailer needs to make use of and configure the available tools Prometheus and Grafana. In the 20.1 release, the system generates three types alerts: Number of stores for which inbound sync failed Number of stores for which sync process did not complete within the specified duration Inbound sync was not triggered and therefore skipped Edge Server Logging Until now there was no way of capturing the system logs from the edge server. With this enhancement the system captures logs generated by Tomcat and all the other relevant components. These logs are archived from the Edge and pushed to Amazon S3 or Google Cloud Storage. The Edge Server Log Files are uploaded as zip files to the S3 bucket and are retained for 7 days which can also be extended to 30 days depending on business requirement. The log files are not encrypted and can be downloaded by the support user as and when required. A scheduled job is run at a specific time of the day to capture these files. The timing to trigger this scheduler can be changed as per the requirement. Auto-populate City, State based on Zip Code and Country Typing information in form fields is time-consuming but often necessary. We should seize opportunities to minimize the amount of typing required by store associates to improve data entry speed and accuracy. One such opportunity is to auto-detect both “City” and “State” based on the zip/postal code entered, within a given country. In most countries the ZIP / postal code contains enough information to automatically set the “City” name and the “State”. This can be turned ON from POS general config when business flag "Auto detect city and state" = TRUE, which will enhance customer add/edit address, shipping information and customer capture screens. As of the 20.1 release, the system ships with zip code seed data for the US and a select list of countries. Others can be added on an as-needed basis by the retailer. Streamline Address Entry Most of the address validation and address fields are identified based on the selected country. Country identity is a key field which needs to be set or selected at the top of the list of entry fields. Seeing the importance of this field, we have moved the country field to be the first position in all address screens. This is controlled by new business flag from POS General Config and will be turned ON, only when "Streamline Address Entry" = TRUE. Original Price Display The POS Cart screen currently displays only the Ext. Price on the UI during order creation. When a user scans an item, it pulls the Selling Price from the Item Master and updates the “Ext. Price” field in the POS Cart. The Original Price is not displayed even if there is a discount applied or a promotion added to the order. However, in when the price is OVERRIDDEN by a user for purposes of replacement, price match, price markup/markdown, the Original Price is displayed under the item details section on the Cart screen. This new enhancement enables the display of the Original Price whenever there is a change in the Selling Price of the item.  This feature is controlled by a business flag "Show Original Price" = TRUE which is defined at the POS General Configuration.  When enabled, users will be able to see the original price of the item whenever the selling price of the item is altered. Price change can result due to promotions, discounts on item, transactional discount etc. In all these events, the Original Price per unit of the item is displayed on the Cart.  The enhancement does not impact the current Price Override functionality. Even with the feature disabled, the Price Override displays the Original Price per unit of the item. iOS 13 Upgrade Certified XCode 10.x built App on iOS 13 / iPadOS supported devices for POS flows and HW integrations with Printers, Sleds, MICR, Cash Drawers and inbuilt Camera scanner. Below are the list of supported devices: iPad Mini 5 iPod 7 iPad Pro iPod touch 6 iPad Air 2