# Release 18.3

**Permalink:** release-notes-183
**Path:** Home/Release Notes/Manhattan Active® Omni/2018/Release 18.3
**Content Length:** 23,108 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:52:55.577838

---

Home››Release Notes››Manhattan Active® Omni››2018 ››Release 18.3 Manhattan Active™ Omni Release Notes (18.3) Release Date: 6.22.2018 Order ManagementResetting Inventory In ErrorGlobal & Multi Brand ATC Support: ATC View limit IncreaseShip Complete: Complete Single Source WMi IntegrationInventory maintained by attributesCustomer EngagementVoice Assistant support with AlexaStore Inventory & FulfillmentReturn to ShelfContact CustomerConfirm Pickup - Extend Pickup WindowUpdate Package Display Shipping Label Errors from the CarrierReassign pick and pack activityOverride Profile Purpose for Parcel CarrierSpanish CertificationPoint of SaleElectronic JournalPayment Configuration EnhancementsExchange TenderCheck FrankingCoupon EnhancementsEmployee DealsReturns - Price HistoryCustomer Loyalty NumberCloud FrameworkContent Delivery Network EnabledNative User Authentication Order Management Resetting Inventory In Error Currently, supply errors are always reset regardless of the supply/sync event. When inventory is marked in error, that inventory usually should not be considered available until it is explicitly marked as available. For example, if a store associate or DC short an item during shipment, that item/location combination should be considered unavailable until inventory is corrected or a new shipment is received.  This feature provides the ability to explicitly reset inventory errors as part of the Supply event or Sync event messages. A new boolean flag "ResetError" has been introduced as part of Supply and Sync event messages which allows customers to control when inventory records in error should be reset by transaction type. Global & Multi Brand ATC Support: ATC View limit Increase Global deployments leveraging stores for fulfillment require the ability to model country-specific views of inventory availability. For example: availability on a French site includes 2 DCs and all stores within France, while availability on the Italian website includes the same 2 DCs and all stores within Italy.  To enable the scenario above (as well as large numbers of multi-brand deployments), the number of supported ATC views has been increased from 20 to 60. Ship Complete: Complete Single Source Fulfillment optimization strategies (allocation) ensure orders are fulfilled based on minimizing cost and shipments. In the situation that a single location cannot fulfill a group of order lines, these lines may be split across multiple fulfillment locations in order to fulfill the order completely. Certain business cases such as customer preference, international orders, product sets, gifts, logical groupings of items (beauty sets) require retailers to source the lines completely from a single location and enforce that the lines cannot be split across multiple fulfillment locations. This feature provides the ability for retailers to completely source all or a group of order lines from a single location. A new attribute "StrategyType" has been introduced to define which lines must be shipped from a single location. Promising will only consider the location(s) which can completely fulfill all the lines (based on the Strategy Type and Fulfillment group). This feature supports the following use cases - Ability to completely source the entire Order from one location Ability to completely source group of Order line(s) from one location WMi Integration WMi integration has been enhanced to include the returns integration. Inventory maintained by attributes This feature provides an ability to reserve inventory based on the Inventory attributes bridged in the reservation request; it will then communicate the allocated attributes to the fulfillment system and honor and perform inventory updates based on the attribute shipped by the Fulfillment system. Customer Engagement Voice Assistant support with Alexa This release adds new features to extend our customer service capabilities to voice assistant devices, such as Alexa, Google Home and Siri. An out-of-box integration is provided for Alexa and extensive API toolkit to integrate with other devices. We have targeted three use cases as part of this release: User authentication - traditional username/password authentication is often problematic for voice assistant devices and can create friction for end users. We have implemented a streamlined device authentication which allows customers to quickly verify accounts with a SMS code. The authentication flow removes the need for manual username/password entry by the customer and requires only a numeric code to be read to the Alexa device. Where’s my order? - customers may ask for the status of their latest order and Alexa reads the order status aloud. Call me back - support for customers to request a call back from Customer Service through their Alexa device. Behind the scenes, this action creates a case using our native case management system for follow up by the customer service team. Store Inventory & Fulfillment Return to Shelf Return to Shelf enables store associates to identify BOPIS (Buy Online, Pickup In-Store) orders that are beyond the pickup hold date, return the inventory to the store floor and cancel the orders. Associates can also extend the Hold Until date for pickup orders. Return to Shelf feature offers the following capabilities: Store users can view the staging location of the order, customer and order details, enabling associates to easily locate orders in the pickup area. Items to be returned to shelf are grouped by department. Store users can return the items to the store floor or extend the pickup window. Manager Dashboard now displays the number of Return to Shelf orders as a separate metric. This metric shows the count of orders that have expired or are canceled, but are not yet returned to shelf.  If Return to Shelf is enabled, then the Awaiting Pickup metric will not display the "No Show" orders. Contact Customer Store associates can now view the list of expired and expiring soon orders and extend the pickup window, where orders with Hold Until dates of today or tomorrow are considered to be expiring soon. The store associate can proactively call the customer to extend the pickup window, or if the customer calls to extend the pickup window, the associate can search for the order and extend the pickup time. Users can filter orders to view expired orders, expiring soon orders, or both. Users can also view the duration for which the order has been expired. Confirm Pickup - Extend Pickup Window Store associates can now view the Hold Until date for BOPIS orders and extend this date using the confirm pickup option. Update Package Update Package allows store users to change the package shipping method, service level, package type and weight. Associates may need to update packages if carrier label generation fails when the existing service level cannot make the promised delivery date, the carrier does not offer a specific service level, the selected package type is not supported by the service level or if the weight of the package needs to be corrected. In any of these cases, the associate can update the following information: Carrier Service level Package type Package weight Once the package is updated, a call to the carrier is made and the original shipping labels are replaced with revised ones. Based on permission, store users can update a package from the following flows: Packing: Store users can update the package prior to finishing the packing. Reprinting: Store users can update the package and reprint the shipping labels after the packing is finished. This option can be used when label generation fails; during packing and when the store associate does not have permission to change the shipping options, therefore store users with appropriate permission can update the package and reprint the labels later. Update package option is available irrespective of success or failure of the shipping labels generation, which offers flexibility to the user to change shipping options in either situations. Display Shipping Label Errors from the Carrier Store users can now view the shipping label generation errors from the carrier when the shipping label request is made to the carrier at the time of package submission or reprinting. Shipping label related errors are displayed with the prefix "Ship Label" and return label errors are displayed with the prefix "Return Label". Reassign pick and pack activity Store users can now view the list of in-progress pick and pack tasks and reassign the tasks to different store users. Override Profile Purpose for Parcel Carrier Users can now specify master data/configuration entities that are associated with profile purpose parcel carrier (pcl::carrier) at the location level. Currently values for these entities can be defined at the organization level. Users can now override organization level static data with the location (store/distribution center) specific static data such as package types, carriers etc, defined with the profile purpose "pcl:carrier". Spanish Certification Spanish language is now certified for the Store Inventory Fulfillment application. A store user in a Spanish locale can now view all the UI labels in Spanish language. Point of Sale Electronic Journal The electronic journal is an essential feature which keeps track of transactions for control and loss prevention purposes. The data in electronic journal are the exact steps that a store associate performed on a transaction. This creates an exact electronic duplicate of the paper journal tape, which allows store managers and sales audit personnel to view, query and analyze the data on-screen, instead of by hand. The benefits of EJ are powerful and immediate. You can quickly identify suspicious patterns, improprieties and human errors in register data, before these events impact your profitability.  It allows the user to rectify human errors on register data or any fraudulent transactions.This improves loss prevention, and makes audits and searches more consistent with UI friendly search capability against the selected journal>Store>Register. You can complete these tasks without sorting through numerous rolls of journal paper, which saves valuable time and helps improve productivity. Electronic Journal functionality includes, at a high level, the following functions: Search for a Transaction (commonly referred to as an ‘Order’ in the base system) using various search criteria. Display a list of Search Results, with sufficient parameters to intelligently locate transactions. Select a single transaction from Search Results and display details to verify it is the correct one needed. Print transaction information on a printer in the store. Payment Configuration Enhancements Additional configurations have been added to allow retailers the ability to add custom payment types for POS, such as Accounts Receivable or Retailer Specific Tenders, and to allow custom attributes to be collected, not only for these new tenders, but for base tenders as well. The collection of this new data on the UI occurs within Payment Input Forms. Multiple forms can be added, each with its own attribute input fields. Input Forms can be configured for each tender, as well as context: sale vs. return. Forms can be configured to appear in a specific sequence as entered by the retailer. Input Form Fields can also be configured in a specific sequence. Validations can be added for correct field size. Input Forms can have various input methods as chosen by the retailer. Pin pad, Keyboard, MICR or Scanner Failover to keyboard can also be enabled should the original input method not capture the data. Additional user exits have been added to allow retailers to have 3rd-party integration for custom tenders, as well as base tenders. Retailers can also now choose to capture customer signatures for any tender.  Additionally, retailers can now configure the text of the messages which are displayed to the user during the various stages of payment processing. Exchange Tender POS UI will allow the associates to accept a tender and exchange it with another tender. The "From Tender" and the "To Tenders" in a exchange scenario can be configured to allow and restrict based on tender selected with a Max or threshold which is again configurable. Check Franking In addition to the tender input configurations, retailers using the Windows HP RP9 register can now choose to configure various tenders for franking during redemption.  Once the configuration is set for the tender, retailers can configure both the message to be displayed to the user during the franking process, as well as configure the content to be franked on the tender itself. Coupon Enhancements Retailers now have the ability to add coupons to promotions as qualifiers.  Coupon codes can be entered in during deal creation, and upon entering, will be validated that they are not currently in use by another deal.  On the POS UI, users can choose to type in the coupon code manually, or can use the scanner or camera scan option.  Once a coupon is applied to an item or items, it will display in the Cart as a modification.  Users can also choose to view a list of entered coupons during the transaction at any time.  Once the user has completed the transaction and presses Checkout, a final list of all applied and un-applied coupons will be displayed prior to navigating to the Order Summary screen.  Any coupon which is applied to the transaction will show in a dedicated coupon section on the sales receipt. Employee Deals Some retailers want to track their employees purchases at their stores and identify them through unique values, such as employee ID numbers.  It is not uncommon for a retailer or dealer to provide discount or promotions exclusively for its employees. These promotions are typically defined for an employee and their job class, and are not applicable to other customers.  This feature handles setting up employee data within Active Omni solution, validating the employee, setting up promotions specific to employee etc.  While creating the POS transaction, user needs to choose an option to initiate the employee transaction.  The system can be configured to validate or skip the employee entered by the user. Returns - Price History In case of returns without receipt/standalone returns, a retailer may wish to refund the customer with the lowest price that is defined in the system.  This prevents a customer from being given a higher refund amount, while the item was bought at a lower price.  To accomplish this, the system has to provide the ability to track the lowest price of the item.  To do this, the effective price is tracked within the price-promo component. If the price history is not found, system picks the price from the itemPrice as a fallback mechanism. Customer Loyalty Number The Loyalty program on a point of sale system is to reward the returning customer based on the accumulated points. POS UI allows for the capture of this loyalty number and will associate it to the transaction.  The loyalty number can be associated when a customer with a loyalty number is activated within POS, or when the user manually associates the loyalty number to a guest purchase. Additional extensions are in place to allow further validation and implementation. Cloud Framework Content Delivery Network Enabled Loading web UI assets to Content Delivery Networks (CDN) is now enabled. CDN distributes web UI assets to servers across the world and loads assets (.js, .css, static images, etc.) from geographically distributed servers. The distribution of content to servers in closer proximity to the end users provides faster UI loading times and other performance improvements. CDN is enabled for Omni Master Data, Store, Customer Engagement & Next Generation Call Center User Interfaces. Native User Authentication Manhattan Active™ Omni has been enhanced to support native authentication within the Active Omni product (local db authentication). Native authentication enables users to be created, maintained and authenticated directly within the system. Password policies are leveraged to ensure stronger passwords are enforced, and allow end users the ability to create, change and reset credentials as needed.