# Release 22.1

**Permalink:** release-22.1
**Content Length:** 15,432 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:47:54.058352

---

Home&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Release Notes&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;2022 ››Release 22.1 Manhattan Active&reg; Allocation Release Notes 22.1 &nbsp; Allocation Submission and Rejection NotesAdd Visibility to Store KPIsInventory Segments By ChannelAdd View Segments button in Maintenance ScreenNew Screen for Channel ConfigurationAllocation Policy Phase Holdback&nbsp;Automatically Re-allocating ASN from POsAdd Reevaluate Overstock &amp; Suggest Transfers Button to Allocation Policy ActionsEvaluate Transfers Button for Overstock Supplies Manhattan Active&reg; Allocation enables you to effectively distribute merchandise inventory to the stores by allowing&nbsp;flexibility to define the store needs as per your&nbsp;business requirements. The 22.1 release is delivered with new capabilities and enhanced functional ability for existing areas. Some of the most significant features are summarized below. &nbsp; KEY FEATURES: &nbsp; Allocation Submission and Rejection Notes Allocators can specify allocation submission notes to enable the managers to review and approve/reject an allocation. Managers can review an allocation along with submission notes and reject the allocation by selecting an appropriate allocation rejection code and adding rejection notes for the allocator. &nbsp;Both allocators and managers can review the trail of submission and rejection notes along with rejection codes. Indicators for rejection notes are added in allocation maintenance screen and corresponding tiles in rejected allocation screen. &nbsp; &nbsp; Add Visibility to Store KPIs Users can now configure to view additional store KPI&rsquo;s in the Maintenance View configuration screen. This configuration selection can be viewed in the allocation maintenance screen. &nbsp; The new attributes added are: Days of supply Estimated Sell thru Over allocation Under Allocation Inventory Segments By Channel Add View Segments button in Maintenance Screen The View Segments button in the Allocation Maintenance screen enables user to view the allocated quantities to each channel for a given supply. &nbsp; Retail channel includes Retail hold back amounts and amounts allocated to Stores. Channel quantities include amounts held back for the specified channel and units allocated to virtual locations with the specified channel. Unallocated is the amount of available inventory which is neither held back nor allocated. &nbsp; New Screen for Channel Configuration New Channel configuration screen enables user to create, edit and view business channels. &nbsp; This screen enables the user to define selling channels to which allocations are made in addition to stores. &nbsp; Allocation Policy Phase Holdback&nbsp; With this release, hold back configuration has been moved to a new step in allocation policy phase. Users can specify a channel for which inventory is held back at the DC, description and a percentage of the DC supply inventory to be held back. &nbsp; Automatically Re-allocating ASN from POs Users can allocate ASNs using the ratios in which related purchase orders are allocated. This will ensure that any manual changes done for PO allocation are retained while allocating the ASNs. New indicators are added in allocation maintenance and corresponding tiles to help users easily identify ASNs which have been allocated based on PO ratios. &nbsp; &nbsp; Note: Only first ASN is allocated using PO ratios. Any subsequent ASNs related to the same PO are allocated using system suggested allocation. Add Reevaluate Overstock &amp; Suggest Transfers Button to Allocation Policy Actions A new action has been added to the allocation policy which re-evaluates overstock supply available quantities for overstocks with the selected allocation policy and suggests transfers for the same overstock supplies. One use case for this action is if transfer parameters are changed; overstock supplies can be re-evaluated per new parameters by evoking this action. &nbsp; &nbsp; All overstock supplies are eligible for re-evaluation with this new action, including Unallocated, Suggested, Submitted, and Rejected. Note: Only existing overstock supplies are re-evaluated for overstock.&nbsp; Evaluate Transfers Button for Overstock Supplies Evaluate Transfers button is added newly in Unallocated, Rejected, Suggested, and Allocation Maintenance screen to recalculate the overstock supplies. &nbsp; The selected option determines which overstock supplies are processed. The first option calculates suggested transfer quantities, considering one supply at a time and only the overstock supplies selected. The second option calculates all overstock supplies for the same product together to suggest best sourcing options for Stores with a need. Overstock supplies in Unallocated, Suggested, Rejected, and Submitted status will be re-calculated. Note: This button appears only when OVERSTOCK supplies are selected. If any regular supplies (PO/ASN/On Hand) are selected, this button will not be displayed.