# Release 22.3

**Permalink:** release-22.3-2
**Content Length:** 10,810 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:47:51.115376

---

Home&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Release Notes&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;2022 ››Release 22.3 Manhattan Active&reg; Allocation Release Notes 22.3 &nbsp; Allocation Performance AnalyticsIntegration of Store Distribution Orders to Manhattan Active&reg; Omni - Order ManagementEnhancing User Experience The 22.3 release of Manhattan Active&reg; Allocation delivers key enhancements across the Manhattan Active&reg; Allocation platforms. This release continues to advance that strategy by delivering even more Omni-centric allocation capabilities. The newest additions included in the 22.3 release of Manhattan Active&reg; Allocation add critical innovation to several functional abilities we&rsquo;ve been cultivating quarter over quarter. Some of the most significant features are summarized below. &nbsp; KEY FEATURES: &nbsp; Allocation Performance Analytics The application is enhanced with&nbsp;improvements to the Inventory Performance Analytics screen introduced in the previous release&nbsp;that is designed to ensure the Allocator has an even clearer understanding of why the inventory performance during the selling season has been at the levels it is and how their allocation strategies and decisions may have influenced that performance. &nbsp; These improvements include: Ability to access the Inventory Performance Analytics directly from the Allocation Maintenance workflow Day-by-day graphical illustration of calculated&nbsp;&#39;Need&#39;&nbsp;versus &#39;Allocated&#39; quantities &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Clear insights into factors influencing the final allocation quantities such as DC supply shortages and manual changes Additional details behind the types and volume of manual changes being done by the allocators Week-by-week display of critical Out of Stock statistics Related: Inventory Performance&nbsp; &nbsp; Integration of Store Distribution Orders to Manhattan Active&reg; Omni - Order Management As store allocations are approved and released from allocation solutions, they can be routed directly to warehouse management for execution. For many retailers, this has been the most common integration model over the years. However, with many retailers moving towards relying on order management solutions to integrate orders to both stores and distribution centers, there are business benefits to our customers to routing store allocations through Manhattan Active&reg; Omni. Optimizing usage of store distribution - Manhattan Active&reg; Omni can pool the store distributions that are released by the allocators in a day. Manhattan active allocation currently enables allocators to release store distribution for pieces of product assortment once the respective review process is completed. However, for business efficiency, it is better for warehouse operators to fulfill the orders to the stores once it is completed. In such cases, it is better for the Manhattan Active&reg; Omni to act as a system that will act as a pool to improve operational efficiency. &nbsp; In a rare scenario, when the supply quantity at distribution center will differ in the time span between the time the allocator releases a store distribution and the warehouse is ready to be fulfilled. In such a case, the Manhattan Active Omni will reapportion these orders based on the current quantity available. This eliminates the need for the allocator to analyze the allocation failure. To ensure such synchronization during warehouse execution, 22.3 includes integration of the store distribution orders with Manhattan Active&reg; Omni which in turn integrates the orders to Manhattan Active&reg; Warehouse Management for execution. The following new configuration parameters are added in the allocation configuration for different&nbsp;order types in MA Allocation.&nbsp; PullBackOrderType ( Orders from Sore to DC or Vendor) DCAllocationsOrderType ( Orders from DC to Store) TransferOrderType ( Orders from Store to Store) Enhancing User Experience The application is enhanced with new warning pop-ups which give info about the valid supply count for the action (Recalculate, Modify Method, Evaluate Transfers and Delete) performed. These action buttons will be displayed for both overstock and non-overstock supplies. Related:&nbsp; Suggested Allocations Unallocated Suggestions Approved Allocations Submitted Allocations Rejected Allocations &nbsp; Bi-weekly projections will be greyed out in unallocated supplies and other allocation screens&nbsp;when the values are still under the calculation process. Related:&nbsp; Suggested Allocations Unallocated Suggestions Approved Allocations Submitted Allocations Rejected Allocations A new validation message is added for the demand type associated with the forecast policy. Related: Demand Type &nbsp; &nbsp;