# Manhattan Active® Omni Release Notes 24.3

**Permalink:** release-24.3
**Path:** Home/Release Notes/Manhattan Active® Omni/2024/Manhattan Active® Omni Release Notes 24.3
**Content Length:** 45,222 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:51:47.225728

---

Home››Release Notes››Manhattan Active® Omni››2024 ››Manhattan Active® Omni Release Notes 24.3 Manhattan Active® Omni Release Notes 24.3 Release date: July 5, 2024 Manhattan Active® Omni Release Notes 24.3Manhattan Active® Order ManagementShopify IntegrationEnterprise InventoryPostgame SpotlightOverride Protection Quantity on Availability Rules and NetworkAvailable to Commerce (ATC) UI RefreshGenAI Available to Commerce (ATC) Audit SummariesKit Items - AvailabilityOrder SellingAdyen Integration EnhancementsAuthorize Pre-orders on Order CaptureAnonymize Customer Data on Audit TrailsDigital Self-ServiceUneven Exchanges & Product RecommendationsDefault to Receipt not ExpectedPass order information to iFrames on Digital Self Service pagesGoogle Analytics IntegrationContact CenterRecommended ProductsAvailable DealsShare Product with CustomerDefault to Receipt not ExpectedView Customer Metrics from the Customer Transactions DashboardCustomer EngagementDefault Agent to Unavailable when Logged OutBouncing Interaction Support in the Agent InboxNative Email SupportRouting to TeamsCSR Manager Dashboard - Interaction metricsCross Organization Support in the Agent InboxShips Together - Product Recommendations APIManhattan Active® MavenChatbotInteraction Wrap-up With GenAIChatbot Summary With GenAIManhattan Active® Point of SalePOS Order SellingStore Sales Metrics ImprovementRetail Delivery Fee - Receipt updatesPOS Fiscalization and GlobalizationDenmarkNetherlands FiscalizationPOS Iris FeaturesManhattan Active® Store Inventory & FulfillmentManhattan Active® Store Order FulfillmentFulfillment Goals & GamificationCompleted Shipments EnhancementsFulfillment User interfacesManhattan Active® Store Inventory ManagementRFID Store Count Supply UpdatesRFID Wrong Store ReceivingStore CommonRFID Bluetooth Reader ManagementRFID Custom TagsUPS OAuth 2.0 Support Manhattan Active® Order Management Shopify Integration Pre-built integration is provided with Shopify e-commerce platform to accelerate joint implementations and reduce total cost of ownership. As part of this release, the below features are supported out of the box. Availability sync and alerts are published to Shopify to update the network available inventory on e-commerce. Ship to address orders captured in Shopify are sent to Manhattan Active® Order Management and translated into Manhattan Active® Omni orders with shipping charges, taxes, and promotions. Credit card payments authorized in Shopify are sent to Manhattan Active® Order Management and can be captured and refunded using Shopify as a payment gateway. Extensibility is provided to enrich the order and payments created in Manhattan Active® Order Management Related: Shopify Integration Shopify Technical Integration Shopify Inventory Integration Shopify Order Integration Shopify Payment Integration Enterprise Inventory Postgame Spotlight For over 25 years, Manhattan Active OM systems have optimized the allocation of orders based on various constraints such as inventory availability, fulfillment capacity, ship-from-store options, and so on. However, there was no visibility into how often orders were allocated to the optimal location within these constraints. With the introduction of Postgame Spotlight, Manhattan Active® Omni provides that visibility, coupled with actionable insights and recommendations that can be used to reduce Adaptive Network Fulfillment (ANF) costs. You can now see how often orders are allocated to the optimal location, the most common reasons the optimal location is not allocated to, and a recommendation to resolve the reason for not choosing the optimal location. Enablement: This feature is controlled by grants and a configuration that is disabled by default. Related : Postgame Spotlight Postgame Spotlight Configuration Override Protection Quantity on Availability Rules and Network Manhattan Active® Omni users can now override the on-hand protection quantity specified in the availability rules, as well as the protection quantity defined at the network level for specific items, styles, product classes, departments, and brands. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related : Protection Override Protection Override Configuration Available to Commerce (ATC) UI Refresh The Available To Commerce (ATC) has a new look, but with all the same powerful features you know and love. The new UI is called “Available To Commerce (New)” and the existing ATC UI is still accessible until the new UI is fully adopted. The old UI will be deprecated from the 24.4 quarterly release. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related : Available To Commerce (New) GenAI Available to Commerce (ATC) Audit Summaries Available To Commerce (ATC) is now using the power of generative AI to provide at-a-glance summaries of all changes made to ATC views in the past 30 days, as well as who made the change and when the change was made. This is accessible in the “Available To Commerce (New)” UI. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related : Available To Commerce (New) Kit Items - Availability Manhattan Active® Omni can now calculate and display the availability of kit items for both on hand and future availability, based on the availability of each individual component. Real-time availability, Availability Sync and Availability Alerts have been enhanced to provide the kit item’s availability. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related : Kit Item Availability Kit Items Kit Item Availability Configuration Order Selling Adyen Integration Enhancements The Manhattan Active® Omni integration with Adyen for payment processing now supports Apple Pay payments. This allows payment for orders to be authorized, settled, and refunded through Apple Pay via Adyen. Additionally, configuration has been added to control which payment types are supported within Adyen’s pay by link page. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Adyen Payment Integration Adyen Payment Configuration Payment Gateway Configuration Authorize Pre-orders on Order Capture With this release, all pre-orders are authorized on order capture. If the authorization is no longer valid at the time of release, orders can be re-authorized before being released. Prior to this release, pre-orders were re-authorized on release but orders were not authorized on order capture. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related Authorize Pre-orders on Order Capture Anonymize Customer Data on Audit Trails Manhattan Active® Omni now supports anonymizing customer data in order and payment audits, enabling retailers to mask customer information in audit trails. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Order Audit Trail Digital Self-Service Uneven Exchanges & Product Recommendations Digital Self-Service now enables customers to exchange a product from their original order for a different style product. Boost your exchange conversion by displaying product recommendations and allowing the customer to add a recommended item to the return order. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Uneven Exchanges Convert Return to Exchange Default to Receipt not Expected This feature allows retailers to avoid expensive shipping/handling for returns under a certain dollar threshold. The threshold can be set at either the order or order line value. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Return not needed for item(s) Pass order information to iFrames on Digital Self Service pages The iFrames on Digital Self Service pages can now receive order data from the parent page. Using these values, the iFrame can make API calls to get necessary data for custom code, such as using a customer ID to display personalized product recommendations. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Pass order information to iFrames Google Analytics Integration This feature allows retailers to take advantage of Google Analytics offerings like collect and analyze page views, custom events like button clicks throughout the application. This feature requires customers to: Set up their Google Tag Manager account information in Manhattan Active® Omni. Set up their Google Analytics account. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Google Analytics Integration Contact Center Recommended Products The Contact Center UI is enhanced to display recommended products in the item search, order edit, and return screens. Customer service agents can seamlessly add these items to orders. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Recommendations in Manhattan Active Omni Recommendations in Manhattan Active Omni Configuration Available Deals The Contact Center UI can now display Available Deals (promotions) applicable for the items in the cart. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Available Deals Available Deals Configuration Share Product with Customer Agents in the Contact Center can now share products with customers via email or SMS. The email or SMS includes a link to the e-commerce product details page (PDP), so the customer can view the product on their own device. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Sending Product Details Page to Customer Sending Product Details Page to Customer Configuration Default to Receipt not Expected This feature allows retailers to avoid expensive shipping/handling for returns under a certain dollar threshold. The threshold can be set at either the order or order line value. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Receipt Not Expected due to Threshold Evaluate Receipt Not Expected Configuration Returns with Receipt Not Expected View Customer Metrics from the Customer Transactions Dashboard Customer Metrics can now be displayed within the Customer Transactions page. Metrics such as lifetime purchase values, number of appeasements and how often customers pay full price are automatically calculated by the system and displayed to enable agents to provide more contextual service. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Viewing Customer Metrics on the Customer Transactions Dashboard Customer Engagement Default Agent to Unavailable when Logged Out When an agent logs out of the system or is logged out due to inactivity, the system will set their status to Unavailable so that routing does not continue to assign them interactions. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Automatically setting agent to unavailable Bouncing Interaction Support in the Agent Inbox When an agent cannot respond to an interaction within the interaction’s SLA, the system will bounce/transfer the interaction to another agent. In such scenarios, the agent to which the interaction was bounced/transferred will be indicated that this is a bounced interaction and has to be treated with priority. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Bouncing Interaction Support in Agent Inbox Expected Agent Initial Response Time for Interactions Automatic Bouncing Native Email Support Customer Engagement emails can be delivered natively. Instead of using a third party provider, retailers can deliver email communication between customers and agents using Customer Engagement. Enterprises currently using a third party provider may continue with their current support, or utilize this capability. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Customer Engagement Email Support Routing to Teams Queue configuration for routing has been enhanced to assign the interaction/case to an appropriate team/s of agents in addition to a queue. Retailers can also define the maximum number of interactions that can be handled by an agent at any given time for each interaction type. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Agent Availability and Capacity Queue and Routing Configuration CSR Manager Dashboard - Interaction metrics The CSR Manager Dashboard now displays metrics related to chat, SMS and email interactions for customer service teams to monitor interaction activity. Enablement: Grant based enablement for UI (existing grant) and additional configuration for aggregation framework Related: Interaction Dashboard Default Time Zone Configuration Cross Organization Support in the Agent Inbox Agents in the Agent Inbox can now email, chat, or text with customers across different organizations. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release Related: Cross Organization Support Ships Together - Product Recommendations API The product recommendations API has been enhanced to annotate items that ship together with the items in the cart. Any time a new item is added to the cart, the recommendations will refresh to show only items that ships together with the items in the cart. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Product Recommendations Manhattan Active® Maven Introducing Manhattan Active® Maven, a new product which brings the power of generative AI to customers and customer service agents. Chatbot Manhattan Active® Omni introduces a generative AI-powered Chatbot to support customer questions about orders, shipments, returns, and more. This release of the chatbot supports customers having natural language conversations about order inquiries, cancellation requests, store locator, returns, and shipping address changes. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Generative AI in Customer Engagement Interaction Wrap-up With GenAI Customer service representatives in the Agent Inbox can use generative AI on demand to generate their post-interaction notes in the Interaction Wrap Up screen. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Generative AI in Customer Engagement Contact Center Agent Inbox Chatbot Summary With GenAI When a customer transfers from the chatbot to a live agent, the Agent Inbox displays a GenAI-generated summary of the conversation between the customer and chatbot. With this summary, the agent can quickly get up to speed with the context they need to provide efficient service. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Generative AI in Customer Engagement Contact Center Agent Inbox Manhattan Active® Point of Sale POS Order Selling Store Sales Metrics Improvement To improve the performance and customization capabilities, the existing store sale metrics - the 'flash sales' fields called SALES METRICS in POS Classic and the PERFORMANCE tab in POS Iris - will now pull the data from aggregation framework.  This framework will provide retailers with realtime feedback on the stores' performance and better handling with metrics customization. It will replace our current Wiretap strategy for deriving these values, which will be deprecated. Enablement:  This feature is controlled by Behavior Change timer, "Switch sales metric data to aggregation framework".  It will be released in Q1 of 2025, but you can opt in earlier.  Please refer to the behavior change document here for additional information on this process and to learn how to take advantage of this feature early for testing and training. Related Links: Process Configuration Retail Delivery Fee - Receipt updates Various states including Colorado, and, most recently Minnesota - as of July 1, 2024 - have adopted Retail Delivery fees.  Typically these are flat amounts which are charged once per transaction when goods are shipped into that state. In case of CO and MN, the fee must be presented separately on the POS receipt, NOT combined into the total tax amount as are other typical local taxes or PIF amounts. It's required by law that the retailers must show the total of the retail delivery fees that's imposed to the customer's transaction as a separate line items and distinct from the sales price and any other taxes or fees. We made generic changes to base receipt templates to adhere to this upcoming law for Minnesota and it is also applicable to Colarado Retail Delivery Fees.  These template changes were designed to work when the system is configured to use Vertex. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release.  Existing customers who have custom receipts need to adopt the latest of the below jrxml templates from base to pick these changes. SaleReturn.jrxml SaleReturn_RetailDeliveryFeeTaxDetails OrderQuote.jrxml Related Retail Delivery Fees POS Fiscalization and Globalization Denmark Manhattan Active® Point of Sale product is now compliant with Denmark fiscal regulations. Refer to the I18N and localization guidelines in the configuration guide. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: POS Fiscalization - Denmark Netherlands Fiscalization Manhattan Active® Point of Sale product is now compliant with the Netherlands fiscal regulations. Refer to the I18N and localization guidelines in the configuration guide. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: POS Fiscalization - Netherlands POS Iris Features As of this quarter, the following features are released in Iris, the next generation of Manhattan Active® Point of Sale. Engage space with splash configurable splash image and configurable best sellers (with navigation to item details) Item selling from barcode scan, manual entry and item details Omnichannel order selling from the catalog for both ship to address and in store pickup Returns with receipt, returns without receipt, and returns initiated from order details Selling modifications: Search/attach/detach customer, apply coupon, item tax override, item value entry required, value added service, nond-merch, employee transaction, apply coupon, item and order manual discounts, post void, apply associate, item and order notes, send sale, waiting room/suspend and resume. override item tax, and tax-exempt Exchange tender: single gift card and cash Gift card issue, balance check and reload. Catalog: category selection, item search, item details Transaction list for the current day at the current location Store performance with 5 kpis (Previously Store Metrics) Also see POS Metrics - Aggregation Framework Customer: Capture customer information, edit/add/delete shipping addresses, view customer feed with order information, notes and pinned notes, customer insights (total transactions, lifetime value, last transaction and purchased items) Offline - Offline mode is available for Iris. Related: POS Iris POS Iris Offline Manhattan Active® Store Inventory & Fulfillment Manhattan Active® Store Order Fulfillment Fulfillment Goals & Gamification Retailers are now able to set on time and fulfillment rate goals for customer orders. Store managers can monitor the store’s performance against the goal and view a leaderboard showing how their store is doing in comparison to other stores. Different goals can be defined for pickup and shipment orders. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default, as well as by permissions. Related: Store Goals Store Goals Configuration Store Fulfillment UI Resources Completed Shipments Enhancements Several additions are made to the Completed Shipments UI. Information about the packed by user and shipment type (pullback/transfer, store-initiated transfer, or customer shipment) is now displayed for each shipment. Associates can filter by tracking number, order number and shipment type, as well as sort by date packed. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Shipping Fulfillment User interfaces Manhattan Active® Omni user interfaces are now available for corporate users to view fulfillment, package and picking task detail information. Enablement: This feature is controlled by permissions. Related: Config UI Manhattan Active® Store Inventory Management RFID Store Count Supply Updates The Store Count process is enhanced to identify RFID tagged items that are expected to exist in the store based on inventory supply but are not counted. Leveraging the Manhattan Active® Omni supply user interface, inventory reconciliation teams can view these items and mark as out of stock after investigation by the store. Enablement: This feature is now available and is planned to be automatically enabled as part of the upcoming 24.4 market release. If you would like to opt in early, contact your Manhattan representative. Related: Supply Sync Store Count RFID Wrong Store Receiving The ability to receive a wrong store package is now possible using a handheld RFID reader. Enablement: This feature is now available and is planned to be automatically enabled as part of the upcoming 24.4 market release. If you would like to opt in early, contact your Manhattan representative. Related: Receiving Store Inventory UI Resources Store Common RFID Bluetooth Reader Management The Store app now allows associates to view and manage connectivity to Bluetooth RFID readers on Android and iOS. Details of the connected reader including model number, serial number and battery percentage are now visible in the Store app. Users can also disconnect and connect to a previously connected reader on Android OS. Enablement: This feature is now available and is planned to be automatically enabled as part of the upcoming 24.4 market release. If you would like to opt in early, contact your Manhattan representative. Related: Store RFID Store RFID - Custom Devices Store Common UI Resources RFID Custom Tags The Store application is now able to decode RFID tags that have been encoded using a custom, non-GS1 standard that follows a decimal format. Configuration defines how to parse out the item identifier from tag. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Store RFID Store RFID Configuration UPS OAuth 2.0 Support UPS has announced that it is deprecating its access key-based authentication protocol for their APIs in 2024. To ensure service continuity, Manhattan Active® Omni's out-of-the-box integration with UPS now supports their new OAuth2.0 authentication. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Carriers