# Release 20.2

**Permalink:** release-notes-20.2
**Path:** Home/Release Notes/Manhattan Active® Omni/2020/Release 20.2
**Content Length:** 49,799 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:52:43.753675

---

Home››Release Notes››Manhattan Active® Omni››2020 ››Release 20.2 Manhattan Active® Omni Release Notes 20.2 Release Date: 4.3.2020 Order ManagementReturn All / Exchange All ItemsDo not allow adding a new credit card when Remainder to Pay is 0Allow SnH override for new style exchange orders Digital Self Serve Email MessagesDigital Self-Service: Same Style ExchangesInventory Supply UI - Ability to filter supply details by Supply TypeAbility to configure "Sort Order" of Future Inventory AllocationHold the release for a Fulfillment Group until the units allocated across all locations are eligibleAbility to form Release Group based on an attribute at orderlineInfinite Inventory SupportCustomer Engagement: UI Extension pointsAbility to add additional Order and Order Line attributes to Release Outbound Template:Point of SalePromotion: Fixed price kitItem/transaction manual discount: High amount lock outForce Customer Search UI displays the discount amount and percentageAuto-select customer on transactions Modification on customer searchAlternate LoginPromotion Configuration ScreenFiltering dealsCustomer contact collectionAvailability check to create or update save the sale linesStore Inventory & Fulfillment Store Order FulfillmentCross-Organization FulfillmentRule-Based Pick To SlotInitiate Packing with Item ScanReprint Packing Slip for Packed OrdersSequencing of Reason CodesUpdate Package Store Inventory ManagementInventory Audit for Pullbacks/TransfersSequencing of Reason Codes Order Management Return All / Exchange All Items When multiple lines are required to be returned/exchanged, for the convenience of CSRs, the Call Center UI is enhanced to initiate Return/ Exchange of All eligible lines with few clicks. A new button  "RETURN ALL" is introduced which when clicked will select all the eligible lines for return and would allow the user to provide "Reason" and "Condition" for the return lines. Similarly, another button called  "EXCHANGE ALL" is introduced with options for "SAME STYLE" or "NEW STYLE" exchange. Based on the option selected, all the eligible lines are marked for either same style or new style exchange and then the "Reason" and "Condition" for the return lines can be provided. As part of this enhancement, the user is also provided the option to select the "Reason" and "Condition" for all Return lines at the header level (which when selected would apply the same reason and condition to all the individual lines marked for return). Related: Return Items Exchange Items Do not allow adding a new credit card when Remainder to Pay is 0 When an order has been paid in full, it is allowed to add a new Credit Card from the Call Center UI and make additional payment. This can now be controlled with the help of a call center configuration - "Prevent adding new credit card if there is no payment remaining". When enabled, the system does not allow to add a new credit card through Call Center UI , when remaining to pay is 0 (i.e the order has been paid in full). Note: At the time of creation/edit of exchange orders, when  remaining to pay is 0, user will not be able to add a new payment method (the accordions for payment methods stay in collapsed status). Related: Call Center Configuration Payment Allow SnH override for new style exchange orders This feature allows CSRs to perform SnH override at the time of creation of new style exchange orders. This feature is controlled through a call center configuration - "Allow overrides on new style exchange" and specific grant "customerservice::order::override-exchangeSnHcharges". If the configuration is turned off or the grant is not associated to the user then this functionality cannot be used. Related: Exchange Items Order Orchestration Digital Self Serve Email Messages In this release there have been considerable improvements made to the ‘Transactional Email’ feature part of Digital Self-Service. The ‘Modification Rules’ framework has been enhanced to introduce ‘Publish Email’ event that can be triggered on an order event or modification to the order. There is a list of emails available in this list that can be configured based on business requirements. Based on this configuration curated messages would then be generated to contain specific attributes required to generate emails for communicating order events like shipment and return order confirmation. The ship confirmation email message is available that can be used to generate ship confirmation email and sent to the customers inbox for ship to address delivery methods whenever order is shipped. Note: Shipment confirmation email is not supported for store sales, ship to store, pickup at store and email delivery methods. Return confirmation email is available that can be used to generate return confirmation email and sent to the customers inbox whenever a return order is confirmed through Contact Center or Digital Self-Service. The return label is attached as part of the return confirmation email that the customer receives. Related: Order Orchestration Process Order Orchestration Configuration Generating Emails Digital Self-Service: Same Style Exchanges Customers can now create same style exchanges in Digital Self-Service. When this feature is enabled, the customer has a choice to either return or exchange each item. If exchange is selected, the customer can select a new color or size and place an exchange order. New style exchanges and capturing payment in self-service are not yet supported. Related: Digital Self-Service Overview Digital Self-Service Returns & Exchanges Inventory Supply UI - Ability to filter supply details by Supply Type As part of this release, users can now filter inventory by supply type and configure the UI to display 25 records per page (instead of 10). Related: Inventory Configuration Ability to configure "Sort Order" of Future Inventory Allocation When allocating orders against future inventory such as PO’s or ASN’s, it is now possible to configure whether earliest or the latest inventory (which can meet the requested delivery date) should be used for allocation. During allocation of an order, system sort the supplies as per the supply type ranking. In case of allocation against future supplies such as “In Transit” or “On Order”, supply records with first available date ( ETA ) are prioritized. Retailers which have future dated orders may want to allocate the orders against inventory with an ETA closest to the requested delivery date. This ensures that the future inventory with earlier estimated arrival dates are available for immediate orders. As a part of this feature, Demand Type can have its eligible future supply type with a defined “Sort Order” by ETA either by ascending or descending order. "Sort Order" is defined at supply type level and will be applied during all allocation related transactions. The future supply records that do not have ETA less than “Latest Release Date” (LRD) will always be ineligible for allocation. Note: "Sort Order" by ETA either by ascending/descending order is applied at a particular supply type level. Hence, supply type with higher rank will always be prioritized compared to lower ranked supply types irrespective of their defined "Sort Order". Related: Inventory Process Inventory Configuration Hold the release for a Fulfillment Group until the units allocated across all locations are eligible Once an order is allocated, it is released to one or more fulfillment location(s) and shipped. In certain cases, orders are consolidated at a Hub location before shipping to the customer. During release, release demand type is evaluated to determine if the order units are allocated to inventory that is ready for release and then for calculating releasable quantity. For instance: If release demand type is "Allocation" but order is allocated against on hand as well as Future inventory, then order will be partially released (only for on hand quantity). Remaining quantity will be released separately when it is received as on hand. In current solution, there is no configuration to hold the release for all the lines until they are completely allocated to eligible supply type as per release demand type. As a part of this feature, optional consolidation constraint - "Hold the release until the units allocated across all locations are eligible" is added to the release configuration. This can be enabled for a fulfillment group. "Fulfillment Group" is a combination of "deliveryMethod" , "shipToLocationId", "addressId" and "shippingMethod". When this parameter is enabled, two constraints are applied. For a Fulfillment Group, when shipping the first leg(s) of an order that requires multiple merge legs, hold the release. Release should be held until all the units are allocated against the eligible supply types. Eligible Supply types for release are based on demand type configuration. For instance: if an order is allocated against DC1, and DC2, then wait until all lines are allocated against available soon supply before releasing the first legs to the DCs. Hold the release until all the units are eligible for the final shipment (Minimize Shipment) This feature can achieve the following. Ensure all inventory being shipped to the customer from one or many locations is shipped or delivered at relatively the same time. Ensure no inventory is shipped to the Consolidation Hub until all the lines are on hand, regardless of where they are being fulfilled from. Ensure Ship to Store lines from multiple locations and against future inventory arrive at the store at "nearly the same time". Note: To apply this consolidation constraint on all or few lines irrespective of Fulfillment Group, override value can be sent during order creation. Release Group will be formed as per "ReleaseGroupId" sent on orderline. "Minimize Shipment" is renamed as "Hold the release until all the units are eligible for the final shipment (Minimize Shipment)". "Group Allocations” is renamed as "Hold the release until all the units are allocated for the <Order>". Related: Order Fulfillment Process Order Fulfillment Configuration Ability to form Release Group based on an attribute at orderline As part of this release, a new attribute “ReleaseGroupId” is added at orderline. It can be populated during order creation. During release process, Release Group will be formed as per "ReleaseGroupId" sent on orderline. This attribute is an additional attribute along with existing allocation and order line attributes used to group allocations into a release. For instance, if two allocations on a single order have all attributes in common but "ReleaseGroupId" is different, then two releases will be created. Infinite Inventory Support As part of this release, configuration is provided to indicate that inventory for a product(s) is always available across the network or at specific location(s). For Example: Drop ship vendor scenarios where certain items are always ordered on demand. Physical gift cards which are infinitely available for the DC to ship Custom items (like a furniture designed online) which always is manufactured and shipped by the vendor whose inventory is not maintained in MAO. A new attribute has been introduced to item location configuration, "Is Infinite Supply". When set to true, Manhattan Active Omni will internally maintain an “Infinite Inventory" supply record to ensure these items always have inventory.  This supply is never updated. Item Location Configuration - Infinite Inventory Availability As part of this feature, a retailer can maintain "Infinite Inventory" for a specific set of item location combinations which allows for these locations to be considered during optimization while the item is allocated. Users can now configure a new attribute "Is Infinite Supply" on the existing item location configuration, to indicate whether a particular item-location maintains infinite supply. If this attribute is marked as "TRUE" for a specific item-location combination, Manhattan Active Omni will internally maintain an "Infinite" supply record which will make sure that these items will never be backordered for inventory reasons. This infinite supply is never updated. For example, shorting an Infinite item from the DC will not mark the supply record  as "In Error". Integration Touch Points As part of this feature, any integration points where MAO provides visibility to external systems will contain a new indicator that indicates that the particular item or item-location is infinitely available. Following are the integration touch points that will have this new indicator: Get Availability Calls - Both Network and Location level calls. Availability Sync Perpetual Outbound Sync Inventory Supply UI Publish Availability Transactional messages. Availability Sync Configuration A new configuration option is provided at the view definition level to the retailers to chose whether or not to send the infinite supply records as part of the outbound sync. The configuration can be turned on/off from the UI as well as through API's. If this configuration is turned on, all items including the infinite items are sent as part of the Availability sync, and if turned off, infinite items are suppressed from being sent on the Availability sync. If this configuration is turned off, a new counter is maintained on the availability sync outbound messages which will keep track of the infinite inventory records. Related: Inventory Process Inventory Configuration Customer Engagement: UI Extension points Retailers now have the capability of adding new fields, buttons, and iframes at pre-determined locations within the Customer Engagement screens including the Customer Dashboard, CSR Dashboard, Case Details, and more. Additionally, base attributes and UI components may be hidden if they are not applicable for a particular implementation. Enable "Developer Mode" to view the extension points available on Customer Engagement screens. Customer Engagement: Interaction Wrap up Customer Engagement provides a spectrum of interaction channels that the retailer can use to connect with customers . This platform combines communication across all channels to provides a repository of  interactions and cases readily available for customer service agents to use while serving customers.Previously, CSRs were only able to wrap up a phone interaction in MAO through the call wrap up screen. All other interactions had to be captured using the external interaction API's. As part of the new release all types of interactions can be wrapped up using the new interaction wrap up panel in Customer Engagement screens. Additionally, Manhattan Active Omni allows external CCaaS applications to pass URL parameters while invoking the customer dashboard and capturing additional details such as the Interaction Type and Interaction Id. The following types of interactions can be created using the new interaction wrap up and URL parameters: Phone, Email, Chat Related: Interaction Wrap Up Ability to add additional Order and Order Line attributes to Release Outbound Template: As part of this feature additional attributes from order and order line can be added to release outbound template by creating custom release outbound template without any code changes.  Customers can now create a custom release outbound template and include additional attributes from order, order line and its child entities including order extended attributes and order line extended attributes and configure it to generate release outbound. Custom release outbound template can be created and configured for each organization. Related: Order Fulfillment Configuration Point of Sale Promotion: Fixed price kit Retailer will now to able to configure a promotion that sets the total price of one or more items to a configured price for the entire package or kit. Promotion configuration and engine is enhanced to support fixed price kit promotion. For example: A retailer may sell slacks and jackets as separate SKUs but wish to offer a deal on Suits. The ‘Suit’ is not a separate SKU but a kit consisting of 1 pair slacks, 1 jacket. Fixed Price Kit promotions allow you to define the kit - in this case, the suit - as 1 item product class Slacks, 1 item product class Jackets, and assign a fixed promotional price to the combination of both together - say, 199.00 for the two items. This is different from the type of fixed price deal in which each item receives the same fixed price - i.e., slacks for 59.99. In this way, you can make final prices for a product or group of products constants for a period of time, regardless of any changes in unit price. This is in addition to current item promotional functionality, which allows you to configure discount percentage or an absolute discount amount as benefit type. Details: The combination to create Fixed Price Kit deal is to use a Combo Item Deal which is non-stackable with template combination Q1+T10+B6. This translates to “Buy N of X, Get Qualified X for Fixed Price, where the benefit is Fixed Price (Spread)”, in the terminology of the MAO Promo Engine. There could be a single Q1 qualifier for a deal such as “Buy 4 Shirts for 150.00” - Buy N of X where X = Shirts and N = 4. There could be several Q1 qualifiers for a deal such as described above “Buy 1 pair slacks and 1 jacket”. There are two N of X qualifiers, Slacks where N = 1 and Jackets where N = 1. T10 is a new Target type compared to previous Promo releases which will drive the Fixed Price Kit functionality and will only be available when the Qualifier option Q1 Buy N of X is selected. One Q1 (or multiple Q1) and T10 combination is selected, the only Benefit option is B6 Fixed Price (Spread). Related: Price and promotion events process Price and promotion events configuration Item/transaction manual discount: High amount lock out The current manager override for discount does not control amount/percent-based threshold. This is now enhanced with this feature, retailers can configure threshold percentage at each role level. For example, I can now configure 10% discount high amount lock out for all associate user roles and 30% for manager user roles. Assuming that these are the only 2 thresholds configured, the logged in associate's roles can give up to 10% discount, but can also be overridden with manager user and pin up to 30% discount. But none of the users can give above 30% discount. Details: This feature is available for item and transaction discounts i.e. item and transaction discount by percentage and amount. Users can configure high amount lock out i.e threshold at each role, each role can have only one threshold configured at item and transaction levels. The threshold amount is calculated internally based on configured threshold percent, User cannot configure a discount threshold as amount. Existing check and forward service is enhanced to support role-based thresholds. If a logged in user is applying discount more than the threshold then pop-up screen is displayed with 2 options Option 1: Retry - This will take to previous apply discount screen, user can entry less than available threshold. Option 2: Override - This will open override pop-up screen with user and pin (who has higher threshold) who can override to the enter amount. This feature is controlled with business flag at each manager override functionality, check below links. Related: Manager override process Manager override config Force Customer Search Currently the users are allowed to add a new customer record from various screens even without running a search on the existing records. Many a time this also results in creation of multiple duplicate records when the users create customer record without checking for the existing ones. A new Business Flag "Mandate Search Before Adding New Customer" is added in the POS Store configuration to force the user to run a search on existing customer record before creating a new one. When this Business Flag value is set to True the "Add New Customer" button is disabled at various search screens like Global Customer Search and, Apply Customer from Ship to order. Also, when this flag is set to True the New Customer button on the following screens is not displayed - New Appointment, New Text Message, New Email, New Phone Log, New Task and New Email. Additionally, the search screen displays a label "Please Search for a customer before adding one"  reminding the user to initiate a search before the "Add New Customer" button is enabled. Once a search is done the "Add New Customer" button remains enabled unless the user exits out of the current flow which can be due to clicking on Home button, adding a new customer record, or selecting other options from Hamburger menu like Catalog, and Cart. UI displays the discount amount and percentage When a user applies a manual percent discount - Item or Transactional discount on the Cart, the discount pill displays the amount along with the percentage value. The discount information on the pill is displayed in the format  "Amount (Percentage)". For example: when there is a transactional discount of 5% applied to the order with an Order Total of USD 90 the pill displays it as "Transaction Discount Percent -4.50 (-5%)". Auto-select customer on transactions Prior to this release, when the user created Ship To Order or clicked on Modify customer in Cart screen, the customer used to get added to the transaction if the search returned a single record. At times incorrect customers were added to the transaction and user have to manually remove them from the transaction. With the 20.2 release this functionality is changed. Now, while creating a Ship To order or Modifying customer in the Cart, the search screen displays the customer record even if the search returns a single customer record. User has to manually select the customer record to add it to the transaction. Modification on customer search Retailers will now see only the Customer tab when they search on the customer record from New Appointment, New Note and New Task. Prior to this release when retailers created an Appointment, Note or Task upon clicking on Go button next to Customer field it displayed 3 tabs i.e. Item, Customer and Order. Item and Order tab is hidden now as they were redundant on customer search. This is a base change and is available with this release. Alternate Login An Alternate Login Process is introduced in the POS app with the 20.2 release. This change provides the retailers with a customized login page and a common way of login to both Online and Offline server. Details: This feature is specific when the customer is using a third-party authentication process like Azure AD. It is controlled by means of a UI business flag Alternate_Login which is passed as Build Parameter in Jenkins during the app build process. Once the feature is enabled, the user is displayed with a custom login screen. Currently this screen is based on the auth server screen format. Retailers have the ability to modify the background image on this custom page. This modification removes the PIN requirement to login to the Edge Server. The common username and password are used to login to both Online and Offline app. The Manage PIN button is hidden in the POS General Settings page when the Alternate Login flow is opted. During the Manager Override prompt, to authorize a transaction user enters the same password which is used for login - provided that the user has the grants for the process. A new scheduler is also introduced which syncs the user data from Online to Offline server at regular intervals. It is currently set to 20 minutes but is configurable. This scheduler is controlled by a business flag Sync User Data from Online to Offline at POS Store Configuration – Common Configuration. Once the business flag is enabled the scheduled job inboundSyncUser syncs the user detail from Online to Offline. A user exit is provided to the retailer using which they can create a cross reference of short and long username. It allows the retailers to login to the app with their short name. Related: Alternate Login Process Promotion Configuration Screen Adding additional columns Retailers can now configure additional deal attributes to appear on the deal configuration screen, as well as filter deals to easily find information they are looking for Details: Retailers can add additional promotional header attributes to be displayed on the promotion configuration screen in addition to the attribute, the retailer can set a default display order, and column width, as well as whether or not users should see these new attributes by default, or just manually choose to view or hide. Users will automatically see any new attribute column that is set to show Once on the deal list screen, users can select the column dropdown and choose which of these additional attributes they wish to view, or they can deselect to hide them if not being used. Columns can be manually adjusted in width by the user.  If the columns become wide enough to move off the screen, the list will scroll horizontally Users can also drag and drop columns into any order they chose These manual settings by the individual user are cached in the browser, and will remain until the user clears browser data. Related: Item Pricing and Promotional Events Configuration Filtering deals Details: Filters have three sections: Date range, status and Other Date range: when user enters information here, any deal with a start date on or after the entered date will appear when applied.  End date will show any deal that ends on or prior to the entered date. When applied, the filter pill will appear as "custom date range" Users instead choose to select a pre-configured status instead Active: all deals where (START DATE <= Current system DTTM) AND (END DATE > Current system DTTM) Expired: all deals where END DATE <= Current system DTTM, regardless of START DATE.  So START DATE filter <null> Future: all deals where START DATE > Current system DTTM, regardless of END DATE. So END DATE filter <null> Other:  These filters can be used for the other attributes of the deals, such as whether or not a coupon is required, location group, or Tags Users can choose to remove an applied filter via the X on the pill, or can go back into the drop-down and either deselect or clear all. Related: Item Pricing and Promotional Events Configuration Customer contact collection If the retailer has set the ID generation strategy to either email or phone, then this rule will be enforced for all customer screens. For those retailers who choose not to set their customerID generation strategy to email or phone, they can still choose what contact information, if any, they would like to gather from their existing, new or anonymous customers. Details: When customerID generation strategy is set to Auto or Null, the retailer can still choose to collect: Email, Phone, Email AND Phone, Email OR Phone, Email and Phone optional This configuration will affect new customer creation, edit of an existing customer's profile and ship to address forms The retailer can also set this configuration for guest/anonymous customer checkout for ship to address orders If an existing customer does not have the required information when adding a ship to address, the user will be notified that this information needs to be entered prior to proceeding back to the Cart. Related: POS Cart Configuration Availability check to create or update save the sale lines This feature provides the ability to configure the system to check Network or Store availability at the time of capturing save the sale order capture using POS system. Details: Configuration "Check Inventory availability to add items to Order" is added under POS store common configuration, with False as the default value. When this flag is set to False, no inventory check is performed while adding or updating save the sale orders. When this flag is set to True, system checks if network has inventory to fulfill the requested quantity to fulfill Ship to address or Ship to store orders, and store availability to fulfill Pick up store orders.  In case of Pick up at store, only stores with more than 0 inventory is listed to be a chosen pick up location. If there is no sufficient quantity, user is prompted with a message and does not let proceed with ordering. Related: POS Cart Configuration POS In-Store Purchase Store Inventory & Fulfillment Store Order Fulfillment Cross-Organization Fulfillment Retailers can now fulfill orders that are created in one organization from stores that belong to a different organization. This allows inventory to be shared between different brands or countries, while still maintaining separate organizations by country or brand. For example, a retailer using this feature can process an e-commerce order that was captured from the retailer's site in country A (Organization A) and then fulfill the order from a store in country B (Organization B.) All customer-facing documents including the packing slip and pickup slip are still generated in the locale and format of the customer order's organization. Note that in order to perform cross-organization fulfillment, both item and inventory must be shared between these organizations. In addition, application users must be provided access to all of the organizations involved in the cross-organization fulfillment. Related: Cross-Organization Fulfillment Process Cross-Organization Fulfillment Configuration Rule-Based Pick To Slot Retailers now have the ability to control which orders should be picked to slot. Using configurable tag rules, retailers can base this decision on criteria such as order line count and/or ordered quantity. By allowing picking to both slotted and non-slotted carts, retailers can realize the packing efficiency that's gained with picking mutli-unit orders to a slotted cart as well as the efficiencies that come with large batches of single-unit orders in a non-slotted cart. A cart icon visually indicates which orders should be picked to a slotted cart. Users can select whether they want to pick to slot or not using the order filter. A cart indicator is also displayed during packing to help the associate identify the desired cart to pack from. Related: Picking Process Picking Configuration Initiate Packing with Item Scan Store associates can now start the packing process by scanning an item, rather than having to select a picklist. This eliminates the need to keep a paper picklist with the cart/products when multiple picklists are ready to be packed. Once the item is scanned, the order is automatically selected for packing if the item exists on only one order. If the item exists on multiple on orders but only one picklist, the highest priority order is selected. If the item exists on multiple picklists, configuration determines whether the highest priority order is automatically selected, or whether the user will be presented with a list of matching picklists to choose from where the scanned item is highlighted. In addition, the picklist summary UI now displays the list of remaining items to pack. Related: Packing Process Packing Configuration Reprint Packing Slip for Packed Orders Associates are now able to reprint the shipping labels and packing slip for shipped orders by scanning an item. This can be used if the label must be reprinted after the package is updated to shipped status. Related: Printing Process Sequencing of Reason Codes The ability to define the sequence in which reason codes are listed on UIs is now available. Sequence numbers can be updated when creating or editing the list of available reason codes. This gives retailers the ability to control the order of the reason code list, and can be used to show the most frequently used values at top of the selection lists. The short and cancel reason codes listed to the associate can be sequenced in the Picking, Packing and Confirm pickup UIs. Related: Picking Configuration Packing Configuration Confirm Pickup Configuration Update Package The ability for store associates to change carrier, service level, package type and weight during update package is now based on individual field-level permissions. The fields in the update package screen will be editable based on the user permissions. Store Inventory Management Inventory Audit for Pullbacks/Transfers When a pullback/transfer order is shipped from the store, the ASNCreate supply event now populates the Transaction ID with a concatenation of the Order Id, Fulfillment Id and Package Id to help identify the pullback/transfer transaction. Related: Pullbacks/Transfers Process Sequencing of Reason Codes The ability to define the sequence in which short reason codes are listed on Pullbacks/Transfer UIs is now available. Sequence numbers can be updated when creating or editing the list of available reason codes. This gives retailers the ability to control the order of the reason code list, and can be used to show the most frequently used values at top of the selection lists. Related: Order Orchestration Configuration