# Release 20.3

**Permalink:** release-20.3
**Path:** Home/Release Notes/Manhattan Active® Omni/2020/Release 20.3
**Content Length:** 35,949 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:52:42.247584

---

Home››Release Notes››Manhattan Active® Omni››2020 ››Release 20.3 Manhattan Active® Omni Release Notes 20.3 Release Date: 7.3.2020 Order Management Curbside PickupOrder ManagementOrder Management - Customer ServiceOrder Management - Digital Self-ServiceStore Order FulfillmentAuto Cancel Back Order UnitsVisa Mandate ChangesVertex Version 9.0 UpgradeDe-Prioritize Past Due Inventory SupplyEvaluate Shipping Cost Based on Item Weight for ANF OptimizationInclude Supply Details in the Promising Query API Evaluate a Delayed Delivery Date Before BackorderingInteractive Inventory - Promising Delivery DateDigital Self-Service Email MessagesDigital Self-Service Text MessagesStore Inventory & Fulfillment Store Order FulfillmentTask Monitoring - Badge countPush Notifications for Ship from Store OrdersCross-Organization Fulfillment - Ship to StorePickup Individual Packages for Ship to Store OrdersStore Inventory ManagementTask Reassignment for Store-Initiated TransfersCommon to both SIF and POSExternal deep linkingPoint of Sale Alternate tenders for override refundSend SaleConfigurable Search Radius Values To Locate Pickup LocationsConfigurable Product Search ResultsPatterns and Masking for Base FieldsAlternate LoginStore Order Fulfillment Reports Order Management Curbside Pickup Retailers can use this feature to offer Curbside Pickup for their customers as part of their existing Buy Online, Pick up In-store (BOPIS) offering. This feature contains a combination of capabilities added to Order Management, Customer Service, Digital Self-Service, and Store Order Fulfillment solutions. Below is a short demo of Curbside Pickup capabilities: See Curbside Pickup Overview Video Order Management The inbound and outbound order messages have been enhanced to include the 'Curbside' indicator, to differentiate in-store pickups from curbside pickups. The curbside indicator in the Publish Order and Email outbound messages can be used to include curbside instructions in emails or texts. Order Management - Customer Service The Contact Center UI has been enhanced to include Curbside Pickup as an option on the Item Details page for the CSR to select while capturing an order. On the Order Status page, a curbside icon is added to highlight curbside items. Order Management - Digital Self-Service When items are ready for pickup, the customer receives an email or text notifying them that their order is ready. The existing email or text can be modified to add a link for customers to click when they arrive at the store. This link launches Manhattan's Digital Self-Service page, where the customer can input details of their vehicle and parking location, and let the store associate know they have arrived. Store Order Fulfillment When the customer clicks the 'I'm at the store' button in Digital Self-Service, the store associate receives a push notification. This push notification can be configured to auto-dismiss, or to remain on the screen until acted upon by the associate. Upon viewing the notification, the associate will see all customers waiting for curbside pickup, their vehicle identification details and how long they have been waiting. In order to provide additional visibility to store associates, curbside pickup notifications that are not immediately acted upon are shown in the notification center. A new menu option, “Curbside Pickups” has also been added. Retailers also have the ability to configure the system so that the associate captures the type of pickup that actually occurred for the order (curbside or in store.) This can help reporting accuracy for scenarios where the customer placed the order as curbside but changed their mind and decided to walk into the store for pickup, or vice versa. Retailers can monitor curbside delivery times using two new SCI reports: SLA Curbside Summary and SLA Curbside Metrics by Day. The summary level report provides a bird's-eye view of stores' curbside performance based on the following key metrics: how many orders were processed, the average wait time, the maximum wait time and the minimum wait time. The 'by Day' report breaks down the key metrics at a day level. The Store Order Fulfillment Dashboard now includes Curbside charts that breakdown the key metrics over time. Related: Curbside Pickup Digital Self-Service Overview Auto Cancel Back Order Units Orders that utilize the Retail Order document type can now to configured to automatically cancel units that did not get allocated successfully when the order line was processed for allocation through allocation, batch allocation or reallocation process. The configuration “Cancel Backordered Units” is available as part of the order configuration so that auto cancel back order units can be configured for a particular order type. If none of the ordered units of the order line get allocated, and they are canceled because of the configuration Cancel Backordered Units, the line will be canceled and if that is the only line in the order, the order will be canceled. If units are canceled due to auto cancel configuration, the same will be recorded in the cancel history with reason id “CancelUnallocatedUnits” and can be viewed on order audit screen. Related: Order Fulfillment Configuration Order Fulfillment Process Visa Mandate Changes As an effort to continuously improve upon the out of the box Manhattan’s Active Omni integration with CyberSource, Active™ Omni has been upgraded for incorporating Visa Merchant-Initiated Transactions and Stored Credentials Mandates for compliance with CyberSource's Tokenization. The mandates provide more information to issuers and cardholders about merchant-initiated transactions, and about payment credentials that are stored by merchants or on behalf of merchants so that all merchant-initiated transactions must link to a previously successful authorization along with a reason. Configuration is provided to adopt these changes for recognizing CyberSource Visa Credit Card authorization transactions as Advance Authorization, New Authorization or Re-Authorization along with subsequentAuthFirst, subsequentAuth, subsequentAuthReason and subsequentAuthTransactionID populated in the transaction. Appropriate Sequence number is also populated for settlement transactions using Visa Credit Card through CyberSource to recognize the first settlement transaction, subsequent settlement transaction and the last settlement transaction against a existing authorization. Related: Payment Configuration Payment Process Vertex Version 9.0 Upgrade Further strengthening the robust out of the box integration that Manhattan’s Active Omni provides with Vertex, Active™ Omni now supports integration with Version 9.0 of Vertex® Indirect Tax O Series®. This will enable customers to leverage various improvements provided by Version 9.0 of Vertex® Indirect Tax O Series® like enhanced user interface using industry standard HTML5, communications services tax content and calculation, enhanced address cleansing enabling lat/long jurisdiction identification and other enhancements. Please refer to Order Pricing Process guide for more information on the out of the box integration with Vertex, which is the default third party Tax Gateway supported by Manhattan’s Active Omni. Related: Order Pricing Configuration De-Prioritize Past Due Inventory Supply If a retailer wants to ensure that all future inventory which have ETA in past date should be considered as a last option for allocation, "Deprioritize Past Due Inventory Supply" can be enabled for future supply types for a Demand Type. For instance: InTransit inventory with ETA less than current Date should be considered last, if there are other InTransit inventory with ETA in future date. Related: Inventory Process Guide Evaluate Shipping Cost Based on Item Weight for ANF Optimization Fulfillment Optimization Configuration (ANF template) provides the ability to optimize fulfillment based on Shipping Cost. The Shipping Cost data is defined in “Parcel Component” based on the Zone (Origin & Destination Location), Carrier, Service Level and Weight. Currently, instead of fetching Shipping Cost based on the actual item weight, system considers the default weight of 1 lbs per line. As part of this release, Shipping Cost of locations will be compared based on order/orderlines weight calculated as per unit weight which is configured in "VolumetricWeight" field in Item Master. Volumetric Weight can also be sent on orderline during order creation. This feature can be enabled by setting "ConsiderActualWeight" as true in promising configuration parameters. Related: Promising Process Guide Include Supply Details in the Promising Query API When an order is created, promising component allocates inventory for an order. It uses an algorithm to find and reserve the optimal inventory for the requested order. A user can also directly call the promising component with request type as "Query". In this mode, the location(s) to promise is found, but the reservation is not performed. This query acts as an ATP (Available to Promise) call where the caller sends a query to the promising engine to determine whether the order can be promised to the customer. During this process, EarliestShipDate and EarliestDeliveryDate is calculated. In existing solution, if allocation is partially against On Hand and remaining against single or multiple future supply records with different estimated time of arrival (ETA), then earliest dates are calculated based on latest ETA. There is no quantity break-up as per earliest dates. For instance: if an item is allocated partially from On Hand and remaining from a PO coming in few weeks then system will calculate date based on PO's ETA. The promising API (in query mode) has been enhanced to support the ability to display the quantity available by date including ETA, EarliestShipDate and EarliestDeliveryDate. Related: Scheduling Process Guide Evaluate a Delayed Delivery Date Before Backordering The Requested Delivery Date is used to represent the promised delivery date to the customer, fulfillment optimization (allocation) has been enhanced to evaluate a later date “Last Possible Delivery Date” if the Requested Delivery Date cannot be met. This allows retailers to allocate orders that cannot meet the Requested Delivery Date instead of backordering. Related: Promising Process Guide Interactive Inventory - Promising Delivery Date In order to ensure Manhattan Active Omni customers can display highly accurate and optimization based expected delivery dates to their end customers in all selling channels, a new API – "CalculateDeliveryDates" - is now available that leverages an availability cache and provides the Earliest Ship Date and Earliest Delivery date, along with the Fulfillment Location and an ETA. The ETA is to indicate whether the inventory is On Hand or Future. The new API provides Ability to determine the expected dates for a single product. Support for forward scheduling dates - Earliest Ship Date and Earliest Delivery Date Support for Delivery Method “ShipToAddress” Ability to support Preferred shipping method configured within Manhattan Active Omni and not required to input a shipping method in scenarios of non-registered customers. Related: Promising Process Guide Promising Configuration Guide Digital Self-Service Email Messages In this release a new ‘Transactional Email’ for Ready For Pickup Email Message can be published as part of the ‘Publish Email’ event that can be triggered on picked order event for Pickup At Store delivery method. The Ready For Pickup Email Message can be used to publish email message to notify the customers  that can be published when store associate has picked the items from the Pickup At Store order lines in the store and it is ready for customer to pickup. It also contains the respective URL's to access Manhattan’s Digital Self-Service screen for store pickup as well as extend pickup window screen. Related: Email Generation Guide Digital Self-Service Text Messages In this release ‘Transactional Text Messages’ feature is available as part of Digital Self-Service. The ‘Modification Rules’ framework has been enhanced to introduce ‘Publish Text Message’ event that can be triggered on an order event or modification to the order. There is a list of text messages available that can be configured based on business requirements. Based on this configuration curated messages would then be generated to contain specific attributes required to generate text messages for communicating order events like Order Confirmation, Ready For Pickup message and Shipment Confirmation. Order confirmation text message is available that can be used to generate order confirmation text message and sent to the customers inbox whenever order is confirmed. Ship confirmation text message is available that can be used to generate ship confirmation text and sent to the customers inbox for ship to address delivery methods whenever order is shipped. Ship confirmation text message also includes short URL's for tracking the packages as well as the link to launch Manhattan’s Digital Self-Service screen for creating return order. Shipment confirmation email is not supported for store sales, ship to store, pickup at store and email delivery methods. Ready For Pickup Text Message can be published as part of the ‘Publish Text Message’ event that can be triggered on picked order event for Pickup At Store delivery method. The Ready For Pickup Text Message can be used to publish text message to notify the customers  that can be published when store associate has picked the items from the Pickup At Store order lines in the store and it is ready for customer to pickup. It also contains the respective short URL's to access Manhattan’s Digital Self-Service screen for store pickup as well as extend pickup window screen. Store Inventory & Fulfillment Store Order Fulfillment Task Monitoring - Badge count A badge count is now displayed on the Task Monitoring menu which indicates how many in progress tasks exist for the store. This visibility helps the store manager monitor open work. The badge count includes all tasks - pick tasks (pickup and shipment) and pack tasks (shipment, pullback/transfer and store-initiated transfer.) Related: Task Monitoring Process Push Notifications for Ship from Store Orders Retailers are now able to alert store associates of new ship from store orders using push notifications. All registered devices in the store will receive the “New customer shipment order” push notification. Ship from store push notifications are enabled by configuration. Related: Picking Process Push Notification Cross-Organization Fulfillment - Ship to Store In addition to cross-organization fulfillment that is already supported for ship to home fulfillment, retailers are now able to fulfill a ship to store fulfillment from a store in one organization and ship it to a store in another organization for customer pickup. This feature is supported for the 'package' receipt type. Related: Cross-Organization Fulfillment Process Pickup Individual Packages for Ship to Store Orders For scenarios when a fulfillment is shipped from the origin store in multiple packages and one of the packages is lost or delayed in transit, customers can now complete the pickup of the received packages without having to wait on the remaining packages to be received. This is achieved by enabling a configuration to create separate pickup fulfillment for each package on a ship to store order. Related: Shipping Process Store Inventory Management Task Reassignment for Store-Initiated Transfers Store-initiated transfer tasks are now visible in the Task Monitoring UI. This allows store managers to view information about in progress store-initiated transfer tasks, as well as reassign those tasks to another user if the original user is unable to complete the work. Related: Task Monitoring Process Store-Initiated Transfers Process Common to both SIF and POS External deep linking Customers are now able to link to specific pages in the Store application from an external link. This enables associates to click on a link from places such as an e-mail, web page or mobile application, and be directed to a page within the Store application. If a user is not already logged into the Store application on the browser/device, the login page is displayed. Once the user successfully authenticates, the linked page is displayed. An error message is displayed if the logged in user doesn't have the necessary permission required to view the requested page. Deep linking can also be achieved for custom pages. This capability is available for both the mobile application and the browser. Related: Store - External deep linking Point of Sale Alternate tenders for override refund For an invalidated return scenario, users can now configure alternate refunds if needed to perform override tender. This functionality is controlled with a business flag, and by default is turned off. Details: The "Allow standalone refund" is controlled by business flag in pos general config > common config > "Show Alternate Refunds For Return". Users can configure the alternate tenders from payment capture config > "Allow Standalone Return" flag. By default, Gift card and Store credit are seeded as "Allow Standalone Return" = true from base seed data profile. Users can override and configured any payment type as alternate refunds for override tender. If business flag is true, configured alternate tenders will be displayed during an override tender. The override tender functionality itself is controlled with grants, only users with special permission will be able to access and override the refund tender. If business flag is turned off, it falls back to existing functionality and uses "Standalone Return Payment Type" on payment parameters that use the override tender scenario. For a mixed cart return scenario, "Allow Standalone Return" works along with Refund Pay Type of the original payment method. Only the common payment types will be displayed as alternate tenders in a refund override tender. Related: POS Payment Configuration POS Returns and Exchange Process Send Sale Store associates can now ship the in-store purchases to an address based on the customer request. The Send Sale option in Modify menu can be used to perform this. This follows the same behavior as Ship to Address delivery method. However, send sale order lines are always allocated to the store completing the transaction. Related: Selling Process Guide Selling Configuration Guide Configurable Search Radius Values To Locate Pickup Locations Retailers can now configure radius values to search pickup locations. Additionally, store associates can also choose whether search radius is in Miles or Kilometers. Related: Selling Configuration Guide Configurable Product Search Results Retailers can now configure the global item search results to display in a specific order. Configurations are item-attribute based, or pricing, and can be displayed in either ascending or descending order. Details: New Product Search Sort Configuration resides in Store Common configuration. Retailers can set a default sort order. Item attributes such as Availability, Price, or Style can be configured. Based on the above configurations, the UI will display the results.  Users can choose to manually change the display order or the sorting attribute. New configuration in Store Common configuration allows retailers to exclude items with an empty or null price from the results. Patterns and Masking for Base Fields PSO and Retailers can now set input patterns or "masking" for specific base fields within POS, such as User Pin, Voice Authorization, and Customer Phone Number. Base fields have been opened on specific forms within POS to allow for editing of attributes. RegEx patterns and masking can be used to enforce specific formatting of data, such as min/max character length, Capitalization of letters, or phone number input guides on the UI. Those fields for which this functionality is now available include, but are not limited to below: Manage PIN Voice Authorization Pop-Up Customer First Name (Short/Long Form, Guest Checkout, Customer Information) Customer Last Name (Short/Long Form, Guest Checkout, Customer Information) Customer Phone Number (Short/Long Form, Guest Checkout, Customer Information) Customer Loyalty Number (Short/Long Form, Guest Checkout, Customer Information Alternate Login An Alternate Login Process is introduced in the POS application with the 20.3 release. This change provides the retailers with a customized login page and a common way of login to both Online and Offline server. Details: This feature is specific when the customer is using a third party authentication process like Azure AD. It is controlled by means of a UI business flag Alternate_Login which is passed as Build Parameter in Jenkins during the application build process. Once the feature is enabled, the user is displayed with a custom login screen. Currently this screen is based on the auth server screen format. Retailers have the ability to modify the background image on this custom page. This modification removes the PIN requirement to login to the Edge Server. The common username and password is used to login to both Online and Offline application. The Manage PIN button is hidden in the POS General Settings page when the Alternate Login flow is opted. During the Manager Override prompt, to authorize a transaction user enters the same password which is used for login - provided that the user has the grants for the process. A new scheduler is also introduced which syncs the user data from Online to Offline server at regular intervals. It is currently set to 4 hours but is configurable. A user exit is provided to the retailer using which they can create a cross reference of short and long username. It allows the retailers to login to the application with their short name. Store Order Fulfillment Reports The SCI release includes the following Store Order Fulfillment Reports. These reports are developed using the Store Order Fulfillment package. SLA Curbside Summary Report: This report provides a bird's-eye view of stores' curbside performance, based on the key metrics like number of orders processed, the average customer curbside wait time, maximum curbside wait time, and minimum curbside wait time. SLA Curbside Metrics By Day: This report provides the key metrics at a day level. If multiple stores are selected, one page per store is displayed. The existing Store Order Fulfillment Dashboard has been enhanced to include the metric “Avg curbside time” and chart “curbside times by date”.