# Release 20.4

**Permalink:** release-notes-20.4
**Path:** Home/Release Notes/Manhattan Active® Omni/2020/Release 20.4
**Content Length:** 55,639 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:52:40.743924

---

Home››Release Notes››Manhattan Active® Omni››2020 ››Release 20.4 Manhattan Active® Omni Release Notes 20.4 Release Date: 10.2.2020 Order ManagementPay by LinkTwo-way Text Messaging for Customer ServiceEstimated Delivery Dates on Item Search for Customer ServiceDelivered Status TrackingCurbside Pickup by LocationInteractive Inventory - Cart Call for Dates and Get AvailabilityTax Comparison StrategySupport for not prorating Appeasements, Promotions and Coupons to non-discountable ItemsCancel Reason code - Customer vs System InitiatedOrder summary UISupport for reauthorizing partially settled and expired payment transactionsAbility to trigger 'Job A' after 'Job B' finishesAbility to allocate orders when capacity is ignored and location have 'Zero' capacity for a shiftAbility to reduce supply quantity or mark it as error based on allocated supply during ship/short eventImprovementsPoint of SaleVoiding Manual DiscountsBackoffice ChangesTill Open/Reconcile: Configurable cash drawer pop-upPersistent VAT Tax CodeOffline Tax rates - Support Tax HolidayAdditional Details on New/Saved AddressControl on Ship to CountriesCash Rounding (Nickel Rounding)Enhanced ReceiptsStore Inventory & Fulfillment Store Inventory ManagementReason Codes by Fulfillment TypeStore Order FulfillmentConfirm Pickup - Cancel Partial Pickup LineConfirm Pickup - Site to Store Orders - Pickup all Items in one TransactionCurbside Pickup - Notify Store Associate that Customer is on the WayCurbside Pickup - One Way TextCurbside Pickup - Manager DashboardShipment Orders - View Completed PackagesShipment Orders - Unit Metrics on Manager DashboardDeep Linking - Prepare Shipment KeywordStore Notifications - Condition-based Fulfillment Creation e-mailReason Codes by Fulfillment TypeCommon for SIF and POSCopy/paste from browser UIInstruction SetRemote Device Configuration via MDMSingle External Deep LinkProActiveIntroducing ProActive Order Management Pay by Link With Pay by Link, customers can input their credit card information using their own mobile device, tablet, or laptop, rather than providing their sensitive credit card information to contact center agents. This reduces the level of risk for customers who are placing orders or making order edits over the phone, while also providing opportunities to capture sales in channels such as chat or text. The Pay by Link feature also enables contact center agents who are working from home (for example, due to the pandemic COVID-19) to capture sales in a secure manner. The Pay by Link flow is as follows: 1.    Customer calls the contact center (or chat, text.) and chooses items to order. 2.    When it's time to provide payment, the contact center agent clicks 'Send Email' or 'Send Text' to send the customer an email or text message. 3.    The customer receives the email or text on their own device and clicks a link to launch Digital Self-Service. 4.    The customer enters their own credit card information using Digital Self-Service and the third-party payment gateway (for example, CyberSource). 5.    The contact center agent sees payment is added and confirms the order. Watch the Pay by Link Overview Video Related: Pay by Link Two-way Text Messaging for Customer Service Text messaging is an emerging channel for customers to seek customer service from their favorite brands. With Two-way Text Messaging for Customer Service, contact center agents can have text conversations with customers while seamlessly using the full Customer Engagement application. Known customers are automatically linked to the customer conversation based on the phone numbers to give contact center agents context about the customer's transactions, previous interactions, and metrics. Customer conversations can also be categorized and flagged for follow up if a customer needs additional assistance using the case management capabilities in Customer Engagement. The Two-way text messaging leverages the following: •    Send and receive customer service-related text messages in real time •    Automatically link text conversations to known customer profiles using phone number •    Side by side access to customer transactions, metrics, and previous interactions •    Flag open conversations for follow up and log notes and details about customer conversations •    Manage your work queue of in-progress conversations and provide service to multiple customers simultaneously •    Distribute new incoming text conversations evenly within your text message agent team •    Out of the box integration with Twilio Estimated Delivery Dates on Item Search for Customer Service Contact center agents now have visibility into when an item is expected to arrive depending on the customer's location and the available shipping methods. While viewing an item, if a customer is selected and the customer has a shipping address saved, the system calculates an estimated delivery date for each of the available shipping methods for the item. If a change is made to the item selection (i.e. size, color, or quantity) the delivery dates are re-calculated and displayed to the agent. Delivered Status Tracking With delivery tracking, the shipment status can be tracked for all orders that have been shipped for fulfillment till it reaches the delivered status. The system will monitor the status of the shipment and the Expected Time of Arrival as updated by the third-party carrier in real time and update the changes in the application, and automatically move the units shipped in the package assigned to a tracking number of specific carrier provider to Delivered order status depending on the status returned by the third-party carrier. The application can be configured to publish delivery confirmation email message and delivery confirmation text message when a package is delivered, and quantities are moved to delivered status. With delivered status visibility in Customer Service, contact center agents can see the latest order status information beyond shipment without the need to visit the carrier's website. Delivery status for orders, lines, and quantities are displayed within the customer service application along with the latest estimated delivery time provided by the carrier. Related: Order Orchestration Process - Order Status Order Orchestration Configuration - Delivery Tracking Configuration Third Party Integrations Transactional Emails - Delivery Confirmation Transactional Texts - Delivery Confirmation Curbside Pickup by Location Email Attributes Locations can now be configured to indicate whether they support curbside pickup or in-store pickup or both. The in-store pickup and curbside pickup attributes at a location level are now exposed on the email messages so that retailers can configure their pick up notification emails to allow customers to choose between curbside pickup vs in-store pickup at the time of picking up their items. Customer Service Contact center agents can see which locations support curbside pickup and select while choosing the pickup location in the store locator. Interactive Inventory - Cart Call for Dates and Get Availability Expected delivery dates can now be dynamically calculated for all items in a cart and displayed on the checkout page. The new cart API will have the ability to consider thousands of locations in the network and optimize the results based on location proximity and labor cost. As and when the customer adds item to the cart, the website or any selling channel can call Manhattan Active Omni with the modified cart to get the optimized dates for the new set of items in the cart. The cart call makes use of the new availability cache which leverages in-memory computing. Selling Channels can also call Manhattan Active Omni real time to get availability for store pickup. The get availability calls will also be making use of the new availability cache. These calls will provide availability for an item or a list of items in a store. Tax Comparison Strategy System compares quotation tax details and invoice tax details to compute the tax to either charge the customer or report in the invoice depending on the various invoice tax modes like minimum and quotation ledger. Currently, jurisdiction and jurisdiction type are part of the composite key used by the application to uniquely identify a tax detail record at the time of comparison. In certain scenarios where the quotation tax computed by the third-party tax service provider during order creation was based on a specific tax regime applicable for destination based or origin-based jurisdiction, and by the time the invoice tax was computed by the third- party tax service provider at the time of actual shipment the tax regime applicable got reversed due to destination based or origin based jurisdiction, the taxes charged in the invoice by the application was drastically reduced as compared to what could have been charged as per the third-party tax service provider resulting in the retailer absorbing the tax amount that was not charged to the customer in the invoice but paid to the authorities on that sale transaction. A new tax comparison strategy "Tax Code" is introduced to compare the tax detail records based on a composite key, which depends on the chargeable entity and the tax code without including the jurisdiction and jurisdiction type. This results in  charging adequate tax amount for the sales transaction as per the third-party tax service provider’s response thereby avoiding any loss to the retailer. The previous tax comparison strategy that used the composite key jurisdiction and jurisdiction type will still be supported through tax comparison strategy "Jurisdiction", which remains as the default tax comparison strategy. Related: Order Pricing - Tax Comparison Strategy Configuration Order Orchestration - Configuration - Tax Configuration Order Pricing - Configuration - Tax Order - Pricing - Process Support for not prorating Appeasements, Promotions and Coupons to non-discountable Items The existing configuration for not prorating manual header discounts against items that are not discountable is extended to manually applied header level appeasements, promotions and coupons. Specific order line can be excluded from prorating manually applied header level appeasements along with manually applied header level discounts. Proration of promotions and coupons applied at the order header level can also be controlled using the same configuration in which case the system assumes that the promotion engine does not support such feature by itself. Related: Order Orchestration Process Cancel Reason code - Customer vs System Initiated In this release a new way of differentiating who triggered the cancelation of an order, an order line or a quantity has been introduced. Retailers can now specify at the cancel/short reason code level if the cancelation was initiated by the system or the customer. Depending on who initiated the cancelation different mod types will be triggered. This will allow retailers to re-evaluate promotion and charges if a customer partially cancels an order but not if part of an order is shorted by the fulfillment system. Because new mod types were created, do not forget to sync the mod types in the order configuration to have access to the feature. As part of 20.4, seed data was updated to mark four reason codes as system initiated as they are used by system processes and short because of lack of inventory: "Confirmation Due", "Cancel Line", "Fulfillment Short" and "Cancel Unallocated Units". Related: Order Orchestration Configuration Order summary UI A new UI screen has been introduced as part of this release. Based on the Order summary object, this new UI will allow the user to act on orders that are presenting an amount discrepancy between order, payment and invoiced amount. Experience has shown that such discrepancy can happen due to integration issues with the tax service or computation rounding. To make sure the order can be financially reconciled in all systems, the user can now write off discrepancies from the application interface in two distinct modes: an automatic mode where the system computes the amount to write off to even out the order or a manual mode where the user specifies the amount to write off as well as perform different actions on the order in terms of payment processing or publishing of sales posting. This new screen also enables the user to access in one place all amounts summarized across an order,  payment methods and invoices. Related: Order Orchestration Process Support for reauthorizing partially settled and expired payment transactions Reauthorization scheduler has been enhanced to support re-authorization for expired authorization, which was partially settled if the payment gateway supports multiple settlements per authorization through a new job parameter ReAuthPartialSettlement. This parameter can be configured to enable the re-authorization scheduler to automatically attempt reauthorization of partially settled and expired authorizations. Related: Payment Process Ability to trigger 'Job A' after 'Job B' finishes In the current solution, there are various features which run in batch mode - Batch Allocation or ReAllocation, Batch Release, and Reapportionment. But there is no systematic way to trigger a particular job  on completion of another one. User needs to define job schedules in such a way that the previous job is finished well in time before the next job is scheduled to run. For instance: when reapportionment is completed, there is no call back for a user to take a particular action such as “Trigger any other job” or raise any custom event. As part of this feature, there will be an event invoked on the successful completion of Reapportionment and Batch Allocation/Reallocation jobs. Event names will be different for the different job types and payload will have key details such as Job Type Id, Job Run Id, Status, total number of records, ANF Config Id, and so on. Any user action such as triggering a custom job or triggering another batch job can be tied to this event by customization. To enable this feature, the user needs to explicitly define the job schedule for "statusMonitorJob" with a frequency of 5 minutes (base recommendation). Related: Order Fulfillment Process Order Fulfillment Configuration Ability to allocate orders when capacity is ignored and location have 'Zero' capacity for a shift In the current solution, locations with capacity defined as '0' for a given shift are considered closed. Hence, the system does not allocate orders which have "Ignore Capacity" override in the Fulfillment Optimization Configuration. As part of this feature, locations with capacity defined as '0' for a given shift or shift override, can now be leveraged for fulfillment methods which do not require capacity, such as Pickup In Store or Curbside pickup. This ensures that a user can restrict the days a store processes ship from store orders, while continuing to fulfill pick up orders. This feature can be enabled by "ConsiderZeroCapacityLocation" flag in Promising Configuration Parameters. Related: Promising Process Ability to reduce supply quantity or mark it as error based on allocated supply during ship/short event In the current solution, whenever an order is shipped, the supply quantity is always reduced for the highest-ranked On Hand Supply Type as per the Release Demand Type configuration. When shorting, all On Hand Supply Type(s) of the item at the fulfillment location are flagged as an error. Retailers with multiple On Hand Supply Type may prefer to reduce the quantity from allocated supply types during shipment and mark the others as error for the allocated On Hand supply Type during order short. As part of this feature, a configuration is provided to ensure that supply quantity is updated for the original allocated supply’s in a ranked manner as per Release Demand Type ( highest first ) whereas, for shipment against future inventory (cross-dock), the highest-ranked On Hand Supply Type as per Release Demand Type is reduced. Also, a separate configuration is provided to mark an error for the allocated On Hand supply’s in a ranked manner as per the Release Demand Type ( lowest first ) for the Short Event. Related: How Reservation Works? Improvements To improve the usability of our end-user guides, the following guides have been revamped: Enterprise Inventory Capacity Management Reservation Returns and Exchanges Order Events Order Scheduling Point of Sale Voiding Manual Discounts Store users will be allowed to discreetly delete i.e void the item discount or transaction discount that is already applied in the cart. Users may not have to void the item or the entire transaction to void the discount. This is controlled with business flag in pos general config > common config "Allow voiding of discounts at line or transaction level". Related: POS Selling Process Backoffice Changes Open Till - Users can now control the Manual entry of Till number in the Open Till functionality. Only those users who have the grants can manually enter the till number while others can only select from the list of Available Tills to Open the Till. This new feature is controlled by a business flag "Secure Manual Till Entry With Grant" in BO Till Configuration and a resource id. Close Till - Users now have the option to hide the Close Till from the Backoffice menu. This feature is controlled by enabling the business flag "Hide Close Till Function" in the BO Till Configuration. Till Open/Reconcile: Configurable cash drawer pop-up User will now be able to systematically engage and open a cash drawer during a till open and/or till reconcile process. Users will not have to use key or perform no sale operations to open the cash drawer during till open or till reconcile process. The user actions for engaging the cash drawer during till open/reconcile process will also be captured in electronic journal. This will be supported on both fixed and mobile register. User can control this feature with the business flag in "BO till configurations" i.e. "Pop-up Cash Drawer During Till Open" and "Pop-up Cash Drawer During Till Reconcile". Related: Backoffice-Process Backoffice-Configuration Persistent VAT Tax Code This feature provides the data required to summarize the VAT rates via closing reports on daily/monthly etc basis. When this occurs, the summary on behalf of Rate A (or B, or C) must be consistent - each rate cannot change the A, B, C designation from one transaction to another dynamically. To accommodate this, we need to have the ability to associate Tax Rates to static 'short' VAT codes (such as A, B, C) so that we can summarize on this consistent basis. This can be accomplished by adding VAT Tax Code on Tax Rate rule and have them persisted to Order or Order line tax records. This data is also used on the Receipts. Following configurations are required to enable this feature. Tax Rate>> VAT Tax Code POS Store config>>Receipt Config >> Enable Persistent VAT Tax Codes Offline Tax rates - Support Tax Holiday This will allow the retailers to setup offline tax rate for tax holidays. The tax holidays can be configured for a specific group of items, grouped by product class or tax code.The tax rates can be configured to have a definite start and end date. The tax rates for a tax holiday can be configured with a price threshold and the threshold type can be incremental or non-incremental based on tax holiday requirement. This feature also extends the offline tax rates to configure tax rates at jurisdiction level, i.e. an item price can now get taxed per jurisdiction, and total item tax rate will be combination of all applicable jurisdictions for that location. Related: Order Pricing - Tax Additional Details on New/Saved Address While creating new address or editing a saved address for a customer associate will now have the option to add additional customer details. New fields First Name, Last Name, Phone Number and Email are introduced while adding/editing address details. These fields are independent of the master customer information and are required to be updated individually although the added address are linked to the master customer. This new feature is controlled by a business flag "Allow Additional Customer Detail On Shipping Address" added in the POS General Config> Customer Config. When the business flag is set to True associates will see these new fields and can include more details for Ship To Address. Control on Ship to Countries Store associates now have the ability to restrict the creation of Ship To Orders for specific countries. This feature is controlled by a business flag "Enforce Control of Ship To Countries" introduced in the POS General Config> Customer Config coupled with the "Restrict Shipping" Flag at POS General Config>>POS Country. For those countries for which the Restrict Shipping Flag is set to True associates will not be able to add Ship To Orders. Related: POS Selling Process POS Selling Configuration Cash Rounding (Nickel Rounding) This feature provides the ability to round off - either round down or round up to the nearest allowed currency denomination. This is required if certain denomination is phased out in some countries or is not in prevalence through some legal act.  To handle this in POS system, retailers can specify the lowest acceptable denomination under Currency Denomination settings. This is not applicable for transactions processed using other payment types such as check, credit card, etc. Rounding is applied at the end of the payment process, on the entire order, not on individual item or payment or action. Suppose, Nickel is the lowest acceptable denomination in Canada, after phasing out pennies. Individual charges such as Discount/Tax amount can result in Pennies as the currency itself allows this. Typical rounding logic is applied on the balance due while making payment with Cash, which may result in rounding up or rounding down the actual Balance Due. Hence, it may benefit the Retailer at times or the Customer on other. For example, in a country whose lowest cash denomination is the nickel, if the customer owes 0.76 and pays the retailer 0.75 cash, POS will be configured to consider the balance 0.00.  Customer need not provide the extra 0.01 In the same country, if customer owes 0.78 and pays 0.80, POS will be configured to consider the balance 0.00 and retailer need not provide 0.02 change. The rounded amount is handled by creating payment transaction using a pseudo-tender "Rounding Adjustment", to balance the books both for reporting and on receipts. This is applicable to Back Office transactions and Manager functions too. User cannot proceed if the entered amount does not comply with defined denominations. This features can be turned on sung the Business Flag POS STORE CONFIG>>STORE COMMON CONFIG>> Enable Currency Rounding. Related: Sample POS Receipts Enhanced Receipts Enhanced receipt functionality provides the retailers to improve the usability of the receipts. With this new feature customers can use various templates for different types of receipts. The templates can be selected based on different scenarios which are configurable. For example: Once the templates are configured for different languages, the receipts can be printed in language selected by the user at the application. Similarly, customers can even configure receipts for various other scenarios. For Example: Specific receipts for Guest customer, receipts for different payment types,  even adding receipt based on the Item category like regular item, Hazmat items etc. This functionality can be enabled with business flag configuration "Enable Enhanced Receipts" set to True. Also, it is required by the business to configure the specifc receipts templates before they can be used in the application. Store Inventory & Fulfillment Store Inventory Management Reason Codes by Fulfillment Type Different sets of reason codes can now be defined for picking (pickup and shipment orders), packing and pullbacks/transfers. The ability to define reason codes by fulfillment type allows retailers to shorten the list of reason codes which associates are presented for a particular fulfillment type, and prevents associates from selecting a reason code that is intended for another fulfillment type. Any reason codes without a fulfillment type configured are visible in all flows. Related: Picking Configuration Packing Configuration Pullbacks and Transfers Configuration Store Order Fulfillment Confirm Pickup - Cancel Partial Pickup Line Store associates can now partially cancel an order line at the time of customer pickup. This allows store associates to better serve customers who wish to pick up part of an order line by directly entering the cancel quantity. This ability is permission-based. Related: Confirm Pickup Process Confirm Pickup - Site to Store Orders - Pickup all Items in one Transaction When a customer pickup order is fulfilled from multiple locations, the pickup can be processed as a single transaction (i.e., if signature is captured, one signature.) The confirm pickup list UI has been enhanced to visually indicate that the fulfillment is linked to one or more other fulfillment. The order details UI displays the order line information for each of the linked fulfillment which are ready for pickup. This feature is enabled by configuration. Related: Confirm Pickup Process Curbside Pickup - Notify Store Associate that Customer is on the Way In addition to notifying the store that they have arrived at the store, customers are now able to notify the store that they are on the way to pick up their curbside order. Similar to how customers notify the store that they have arrived, a new API is available for external solution to call when the customer clicks "I'm on my way". Once the customer clicks the link, a push notification is sent to the store, notifying the associates to prepare for an incoming curbside pickup. The Store application can also accept ETA which can be provided through integration with a location tracking service. The curbside UI sorts curbside orders which have arrived above orders for which a customer is on the way and list the estimated time of arrival. This feature is not yet available in Digital Self-Service, but is available through integration with a third-party self-service application. Related: Curbside Implementation Curbside Pickup - One Way Text Store associates are now able to send a text message to a curbside pickup customer who has arrived at the store through the Curbside Pickup UI. This text acknowledges that the store has received the customer's arrival notification and can include secondary information about ETA, etc. Associates can choose from a list of pre-configured text messages to send depending on the situation. Pre-configured sample messages are provided to notify the customer that the associate will be outside shortly with their order, there will be a delay in bringing their order out, or that the associate needs to speak to the customer over the phone. Retailers can create their own text messages for their associates to choose from. Associates also have the ability to directly type a message to the customer if the pre-configured texts aren't sufficient. The ability for store associates to text a customer is controlled by configuration as well as by permission. In addition, associates are only able to send a text to the customer if the customer has opted in to receive texts from the retailer. Related: Curbside Implementation Curbside Pickup - Manager Dashboard Curbside pickup information is now available on the Manager Dashboard UI. Store managers now have visibility into how many curbside orders are outstanding as well as how many have customers who have arrived and are waiting on pickup. Store managers can navigate from the dashboard to the Curbside Pickup UI to see the list of curbside orders with customers who have arrived. The average customer wait time for curbside orders for the day is also displayed on the screen. The curbside metrics as well as the ability to navigate to the Curbside Pickup UI are both permission controlled. Related: Manager Dashboard Process Shipment Orders - View Completed Packages A new UI enables store associates to review packages that have been completed throughout the day to confirm the number of packages that should be handed off to the carrier. Packages without a tracking number are listed first in order to highlight to the associates that shipping labels need to be printed. By default the UI shows packages for the current date, and a date filter is available to select previous dates. Additional filtering is available to list packages by carrier, packages with/without a tracking number and by package status. Related: Shipping Process Shipment Orders - Unit Metrics on Manager Dashboard Shipment order metrics on the Manager Dashboard UI can now be displayed to store managers in terms of units, as well as orders. This can be useful for retailers whose labor and productivity tracking is based on the unit level. The display of unit metrics is controlled by configuration. Related: Manager Dashboard Process Deep Linking - Prepare Shipment Keyword Retailers can now pass the same keyword filter that is available on the Prepare Shipments UI through an external link. This allows them to show a specific order or limit the number of fulfillment(s) which display on the UI when navigating from an external link. For example, a retailer can include the order ID in the link so when the store associate clicks on the link, the Prepare Shipments UI screen is already filtered by the order ID so that the associate does not have to make a decision about which fulfillment to select. Consistent with the UI filter, the specified keyword is checked against order ID, fulfillment ID, customer name, e-mail and phone number. Related: Store - External Deep Linking Store Notifications - Condition-based Fulfillment Creation e-mail Retailers are now able to send an email to store associates when a new fulfillment is created to notify them of the incoming work. When a new fulfillment is created, a condition-based event can be generated based on fulfillment and location/store criteria. The conditional logic provides flexibility related to when e-mails can be sent. A sample e-mail template is provided which includes fulfillment, store and item information. Associates can navigate to the appropriate picking UI directly from the e-mail. The base sample template is customizable. The fulfillment creation event logic is enabled/disabled by configuration. Related: Pre-Acceptance Process Store - External Deep Linking Reason Codes by Fulfillment Type Different sets of reason codes can now be defined for picking (pickup and shipment orders), packing and pullbacks/transfers. The ability to define reason codes by fulfillment type allows retailers to shorten the list of reason codes which associates are presented for a particular fulfillment type, and prevents associates from selecting a reason code that is intended for another fulfillment type. Any reason codes without a fulfillment type configured are visible in all flows. Related: Picking Configuration Packing Configuration Pullbacks and Transfers Configuration Common for SIF and POS Copy/paste from browser UI Retailers can now copy text from the Store browser application using the operating system's copy function. This allows store associates to copy data such as fulfillment ID, item description and package ID from the Store application screens. Copy is supported on the portions of the UI where user interactions (such as click, select or slide) do not exist. In order to prevent the copy action from interfering with the primary user actions that store associates routinely perform, copy is available on browser and not on the mobile application. Related: Store UI Home page Instruction Set Instruction sets allow store operations personnel to send instructions from the Active Omni application for execution on their mobile devices. Store operations personnel use an Active Omni UI to create a new instruction set and assign it to one or more devices. Based on configurable timing, the Store mobile application periodically checks to see if any new instructions are pending for the device. If a new instruction is found, the device executes the instruction and sends an acknowledgement once completed. UIs are available for store ops personnel to view devices which are actively using the Store app, create new instruction sets and monitor execution progress. The instruction set framework currently supports the following instructions: Change log level – This instruction updates the log level that's configured in the device's Store settings to the specified level. This allows the device's log level to be updated without having to coordinate with the store, which can be useful if troubleshooting an error that occurred on a device by capturing more verbose future log statements. Send device database – This instruction triggers the device to send the information from its local database to the server. Similar to above, this can be useful if troubleshooting an error that occurred on a device. Custom instruction – Customers can also create custom instructions using extensibility. Related: Instruction Set Remote Device Configuration via MDM Retailers can centrally manage the URL and authentication URL configuration values of the iOS and Android Store applications through their Mobile Device Management (MDM) provider. This eliminates the need to specify the URL and authentication URL values during the application build process, or to manually configure the values at the device level. Out of the box support is provided for customers using Workspace ONE (formerly known as AirWatch) or SOTI MDMs. Related: Store Mobile App Deployment Single External Deep Link The ability to link to a specific page in the Store application from an external link now supports a single URL for both mobile and browser. Clicking the link from a mobile device opens the specific page in the Store mobile application, and clicking from a desktop/laptop opens the Store application on the browser. Related: Store - External Deep Linking ProActive Introducing ProActive ProActive is Manhattan’s developer portal where users can view APIs and Extension Points, create new Extensions/Mods, extend the databases and customize the UIs, all in one application. There are many ways that users can extend the base application, these capabilities include: Registering External API(s) Creating custom User Exit(s) and Event(s) Extending databases with custom Entity Extension(s) Customizing the User Interface with UI Extension(s) Users will create Extension Packs that give a functional name and description to the Extension(s) needed to achieve a certain business goal. Extension Packs can contain one or more Extensions of the same or different types. The Extension Pack concept enables a pack of Extensions to be deployed all together; streamlining the extending and modification process. Related: See the full guide here: ProActive