# Release Notes 23.3 

**Permalink:** release-notes-23.3
**Content Length:** 8,519 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:47:47.199474

---

Home&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Release Notes&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;2023 ››Release Notes 23.3 Manhattan Active&reg; Allocation Release Notes 23.3 &nbsp; Enhanced Data Loader Capabilities&nbsp;Support Item Location at Size Level&nbsp;Allocation Global Configuration UIInventory Segmentation Charts in Allocator ConsoleNeed Computation - Ignore Past Adjustment Weeks The 23.3 release of Manhattan Active Allocation is focused on ensuring Manhattan&rsquo;s allocation solution is even simpler to use while achieving maximum returns on inventory.&nbsp;&nbsp; The newest additions included in the 23.3 release of Manhattan Active Allocation improve the overall usability of several core allocation functions as well as simplify various configuration tasks. Some of the most significant features are summarized below. &nbsp; Enhanced Data Loader Capabilities&nbsp; The export data loader feature allows a user to export the information into a spreadsheet (.csv) format. The user can also use this exported spreadsheet as a template for importing new data into the system. The import data loader feature allows a user to import data from a spreadsheet into the system. For this release, the Import and Export data loader feature is added to the following screens:&nbsp; Item, location, Item Location Phase, Item Location, Item Location Constraints, Size Profiles, Size Categories, Location Groups, and Need Adjustment. &nbsp; Note:&nbsp;This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Item Location Item location Phase Item location Item Location Constraints Size Profiles Size Categories Location Groups Need Adjustments Support Item Location at Size Level&nbsp; Earlier, for styled products - Item Locations were&nbsp;created at style and style-color level in Allocation. However, most&nbsp;retailers specify item location attribute at leaf level (size level). In order to support this requirement,&nbsp;Item locations can now be created at size level instead of style and style-color level for the styled products. &nbsp; The following enhancements are done in this release&nbsp;to support Item locations at the size level. Model Metric Computation Currently, model items can be configured at the style and style-color level. The same behavior is expected&nbsp;to continue with ILs at the size level. The model metric will now be computed at the size level instead of the style-color level. The model metric values will be copied over from the model items with the same colors and sizes. Forecast Modeling&nbsp;Changes The item-location modeling feature in forecasting&nbsp;is enhanced to use attributes like&nbsp;style, color, and size at item level instead of style level while identifying&nbsp;model item-locations. Note:&nbsp;This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Model Item Setup Allocation Global Configuration UI Manhattan Active Allocation supports a significant number of global configurations. Currently, these parameters can only be viewed and edited through REST APIs.&nbsp;With this release, a new screen is added to provide a consolidated view of these parameters.&nbsp;&nbsp;Admin users can set these parameters using the new UI &quot;Allocation Parameters&quot;. &nbsp; Note:&nbsp;This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Allocation Parameters Inventory Segmentation Charts in Allocator Console The Allocator Console screen is the&nbsp;first point of entry for allocators and managers. These charts provide&nbsp;an Omni-channel-centric view of inventory for the users. As part of this release, new charts are added to view the quantities & values&nbsp;allocated to each channel (Inventory Segments) for a given supply. Inventory Segments by Quantity Inventory Segments by Value Note:&nbsp;This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Allocator Console Need Computation - Ignore Past Adjustment Weeks When retailers plan a promotional event, they make adjustments to need computation to bump up the inventory at the respective item-locations for the promotional period. We added the ability to create these need adjustments in the last release. In this release, we have added an ability to ignore past&nbsp;adjustment weeks in need calculation in the post-promotion&nbsp;period. This feature will control the need computation after the promotion period is over, to make sure the need is not elevated due to increased (or decreased) sales during the adjustment period. &nbsp; Note:&nbsp;This option is disabled by default as part of the release. Related: Need Adjustments