# Release 21.1

**Permalink:** release-notes-21.1
**Path:** Home/Release Notes/Manhattan Active® Omni/2021/SCI Release 21.2/Release 21.1
**Content Length:** 29,690 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:52:39.254053

---

Home››Release Notes››Manhattan Active® Omni››2021››SCI Release 21.2 ››Release 21.1 Manhattan Active® Omni Release Notes 21.1 Release Date: 12.18.2020 Order ManagementContact CenterCross-Organization Visibility in Order List & Order Line ListFilter by Order Line in the Audit TrailEnterprise InventoryInteractive Inventory - Metrics DashboardOrder SellingEnhancements to order chargesStore Pickup RemindersDigital Self-ServiceStore Phone Number for CurbsideCustomer EngagementEmail Response TemplatesInbound & Outbound Email AttachmentsPoint of Sale (POS)Bounceback CouponSupport External Offer numberEnhanced return match - auto search itemsDelivery Dates on POS CartOrder NotesGift Card - Alternate flow on Issue/Reload Authorization ErrorStore Inventory & Fulfillment (SIF)Store Order FulfillmentPush Notification Sound FilesCurbside Pickup - Two-Way Text MessagingStaging ImprovementsStore Inventory ManagementView Inventory in Nearby StoresReceipt VisibilityCommon for SIF and POSConfigurable Store Background ImageCamera Scan ImprovementsDevice and OS Support Order Management Contact Center Cross-Organization Visibility in Order List & Order Line List Contact center agents who are responsible for orders across multiple brands and countries can now search for view order status and edit orders across organizations in the Order List and Order Line List. For example, an agent responsible for orders in all European countries in Brand A and Brand B needs to search using customer email in the Order List. Prior to this enhancement, the agent had to identify and select the organization before searching for orders. Now, the agent can remain at the parent organization level and view order results across Brand A, Brand B, and all countries they are assigned to. Currently, only single-select actions including View Order Status, Edit Order, and View Order Details are supported. Multi-select actions are not supported when this feature is enabled. If a user selects multiple orders, then the following actions are disabled: allocate, release, cancel, hold, un-hold, send order status, import order, and view import progress. Related: Cross-Org Visibility Overview Cross-Org Visibility Configuration Filter by Order Line in the Audit Trail In the order Audit Trail, which is accessed by launching Order Details from the Order List, records can now be filtered by order line. For example, if an order has 50 lines, and a user wants to troubleshoot the life cycle of line 2, then the user can filter for line 2 and view the audit trail for this specific line. Related: Order Orchestration Process Enterprise Inventory Interactive Inventory - Metrics Dashboard A new Interactive Inventory dashboard has been introduced to provide key metrics and KPIs related to Inventory and Promising, such as delivery date lead times and inventory availability. The dashboard provides visibility to the Availability API calls, Delivery Date API calls, and the orders created. The dashboard enables users to: Validate the lead times being promised are meeting the business expectations Assess the customer's preference with respect to fulfillment options Improve fulfillment decisions based on the average number of shipments Understand from where the requests are coming and make fulfillment decisions Related: Interactive Inventory - Overview Interactive Inventory - Metrics Dashboard Order Selling Enhancements to order charges As part of this release we have added two new charge types: Handling and Surcharge. Handling charges can be used for special handling of items, for example, to protect the health and safety of employees or the environment and are added as additional charges for processing an order. Surcharge can be used to represent additional charges on top of Shipping & Handling (S&H) charges, for example, carriers can levy a surcharge if a parcel shipment exceeds the allowed volume. Surcharges are not calculated within Active Omni and need to be calculated by an external system and bridged in as part of the order (and potentially re-calculated on order updates). There is currently no ability to indicate if Handling and Surcharge are refundable. Order mod types cannot be triggered based on updates to these charge types. Currently the system can be configured to charge the entire S&H charges as part of the first invoice if you have multiple shipments and corresponding invoices. With this release the individual charge types like Handling, Surcharge, VAS can be configured to be charged during the first invoice. Related: Order Pricing Configuration - Shipping-and-Handling Order Pricing Process Order Pricing UI Help Store Pickup Reminders Expanding on our existing transactional email/text feature we have added capability in this release to configure 'pickup reminders' for store pickups. After sending the initial store pickup email/text the system can be configured to send multiple pickup reminder emails or texts to remind the customers to complete their pickup. These reminders can be sent at configurable intervals after the order has been picked by the store associate. A final pickup reminder can be sent before the store cancels the items/order and begins the return-to-shelf process for no-shows. Related: Transactional Emails Transactional Texts Digital Self-Service Store Phone Number for Curbside The customer has the option to call the store while viewing the Digital Self-Service page. By default, the phone number used is the store location's general phone number. However, it may be desired to use a different phone number, in case the store has a phone number specific for curbside, or if the store location phone number is used for other purposes. This feature supports an optional curbside-specific phone number for each store. Related: Store Phone Number for Curbside Customer Engagement Email Response Templates When composing emails, agents can select from pre-configured email templates to pre-populate standard text in an outgoing email. For example, email response templates could include return policy, shipment delays, store returns, or hazmat returns policy. An agent can select a template, which will paste text in the email body, and add or modify the text as needed. Currently, only one template can be selected per email. Related: Emails Inbound & Outbound Email Attachments Agents can now work with inbound and outbound attachments, including PDF (.pdf), PNG (.png), JPEG (.jpeg), text (.txt) and Word document (.doc, .docx) files. For example, customers can send photos of damaged items they've received, and agents can send returns forms to customers. When an agent selects an attachment to view it, the file is downloaded to their local system, and they can view the file via their downloads folder. Related: Emails Point of Sale (POS) Bounceback Coupon MAO Promotions is enhanced to support bounceback coupons. The bounceback coupon is a promotional benefit which is printed as a coupon bar code. The bounceback coupons can be discovered by the shopper on a customer receipt upon qualification. These coupons can be used to qualify for another deal on a future shopping trip. Retailers can utilize bounceback coupons like this to increase store traffic or to simply build brand loyalty. If a customer purchases an item and likes it, it is highly likely that the customer will revisit the store or the brand - especially when additional discounts are provided via bounceback coupons. Bounceback promotions can be configured to provide benefit via a generic coupon or by a o ne-time use coupon (offer numbers). Related: Bounceback Process Bounceback Configuration Support External Offer number This feature enables the retailer to evaluate externally managed Offer numbers within MAO promotion engine.  This capability enables MAO promotion engine to capture the offer number within our system, communicate with external system via the User Exit to find its validity and evaluate the deal based on the result.  Rest of the deal evaluation remains the same. This can be turned on using the Business Flag, but for complete  functionality, a custom extension work would be required to communicate to the specific 3rd party system. Related: Business flag: Enable External Offer Numbers Enhanced return match - auto search items This is an enhancement to the existing return match API.  It provides the ability to auto-search a customer’s past orders during a return, even if the original transaction information for the return item (the original Sale receipt) is not presented or does not match with the item.  To accomplish this, store associate is required to activate the registered customer. During Match process, in addition to matching any receipts that have been provided, if necessary, the system also uses this customer ID to get the past purchases.  This prevents the store associate from manually searching for orders to be able to process the return with appropriate parent sale order. In this process, the orders presented (Sale receipts) by the user take precedence over the others, which means the system tries to match with these orders first, followed by doing an auto-search for the ones from the past purchase history.  This functionality is enabled via a business flag and there is a configuration limit to the number of days of historical orders to be looked up. Changing the active customer or deactivating the customer does not have any impact on the already created return order lines in the cart. Related: POS Returns & Exchange Process POS Cart Configuration Delivery Dates on POS Cart The POS Cart screen is enhanced to display the delivery date on the order lines. Based on the information from the order line like the item number, quantity, shipping address and shipping method, the application is now equipped to retrieve the delivery date information and display it upfront to the customer. This is a business flag driven feature. Related: Delivery Date Process Delivery Date Config Order Notes POS orders   can now add notes to the orders at both Header and Item Level. These notes provide an ability to the users to add additional instructions or information on the POS orders. For example: These notes can be used on the Ship-to-order to provide some additional instruction like addition of a Gift Message on the order before they are shipped to the end customer. These notes can either be added at the overall order level or at an item specific level. Related: Order Notes Process Order Notes Config Gift Card - Alternate flow on Issue/Reload Authorization Error There are instances when Gift Card authorization for a new card or reload do not go through due to reasons like  inaccessibility of GC provider, unavailability of the payment gateway and so on. This causes the transaction to come to a halt. At this point the users do not always have the option to go back to the Item Entry screen to remove the failed Gift Card details. With the new feature, the application allows the users to continue with the order flow even if there are authorization failures on the GC activation/reload. The application displays the appropriate error for these transactions but allows the users to complete the order flow. The failed records are also captured on the receipt with the individual amount. This new feature is business flag driven. Related: Gift Card Process Guide Store Inventory & Fulfillment (SIF) Store Order Fulfillment Push Notification Sound Files Retailers can now configure a sound to notify associates that a new push notification has been received when the Store application is active or inactive. In addition to being able to choose from two sounds which are included with the base application, retailers can also package custom sounds into the application. They can define the sound to play for each push notification type (i.e., new pickup order, new shipment order.) This functionality is available on mobile and browser. This feature is controlled by configuration. Related: Push Notifications Curbside Pickup - Two-Way Text Messaging Curbside pickup customers can now  reply to the text messages sent by store associates. When the customer's message arrives, a push notification is sent to the store's devices to alert store associates. A tap on the notification opens the conversation popover, which displays the latest message sent by the customer and the conversation history between the customer and the store. Based on permissions, associates can respond back to the customer with predefined and/or free typed messages. Once the associate is done with the conversation and closes the popover, they are taken back to the screen where they tapped on the notification. As with other push notifications, associates are alerted whether the application is active or inactive, on mobile and browser. The ability of store associates to text a customer is controlled by configuration and permissions. The ability to display incoming text notifications to associates is controlled by configuration. Related: Curbside Process Curbside Configurations Store Customer Engagement Configurations Confirm Pickup Process Return to Shelf Process Contact Customer Process Staging Improvements Store associates can now stage pickup orders from the Stage Pickups menu by selecting them from a list, or by scanning the order ID or item ID. The name of the picker is also displayed for each order. Associates can stage ship-to-store orders from the Stage Pickups menu by selecting them from a list. If an associate chooses to stage the ship-to-store order from the receiving interstitial screen, the list of orders for which a package was just received is now displayed to the user to facilitate staging. This feature is controlled by configuration. Related: Staging Process Staging Configuration Store Inventory Management View Inventory in Nearby Stores Store associates can now view inventory in nearby stores to assist customers when an item is unavailable at the current store. The store associate can view inventory on a map view within a specified radius. A list is also displayed with the store's address, phone number and the distance from the current location. This feature is controlled by configuration as well as by permission " ui-inventory: inventory: find-inventory-nearby-stores". Related: View Store Inventory Process View Store Inventory Configuration Receipt Visibility Store associates can now view inbound packages destined for the store. From the Receive Inventory menu, the list of expected packages shows key information including the tracking number, estimated delivery date, units, carrier and whether the package is for a customer order or inventory replenishment. The associate can also select a package to see its contents. A date filter allows the associate to limit the package list based on a range of expected delivery dates, and a default value can be configured for this filter. This feature supports cross-organization scenarios where the fulfilling and receiving locations are in different organizations. The latest estimated delivery dates for each package are requested from the carrier based on a configurable job scheduler. This feature is controlled by configuration and the permission "ui-inventory::inventory::view-expected-packages". Related: Receiving Process Receiving Configuration Update ETA on Packages - Process Shipping Configuration Common for SIF and POS Configurable Store Background Image Retailers can now define a custom background image on the Store home screen through configuration, without having to trigger and deploy a new custom build. This makes it easy to change an image to handle scenarios such as the retailer's theming changing seasonally. For customers with multiple organizations or brands, different background images can be defined at the organization or even store level, if desired. This feature applies to both devices and browsers. Related: Store - Home Screen Customization Camera Scan Improvements Retailers can also now configure the application to automatically relaunch the camera scanner after each scan. This is useful for scanning flows where multiple barcodes are scanned so that the user doesn't have to tap on the camera scan icon to scan each barcode. Once scanning is done, the user can tap on a button to exit the camera scanner. The configuration which defines whether to relaunch the camera scanner is defined for each menu option. On iOS devices, a custom camera scan plug-in can now be used in the Store application instead of the base iOS camera scanner plug-in. This allows retailers to package another camera plug-in which offers additional features apart from the base iOS plug-in offers. Also, the relaunch feature mentioned above can be used in conjunction with the custom camera scan plug-in. Retailers can choose to disable the default camera scan capability on mobile devices. This can be useful when inbuilt or sled scanners are used and have been configured to perform barcode manipulations which are not possible using the camera scanner. Configuration determines whether the camera scan is enabled or disabled. By default, the camera scan is always enabled on devices that support it. When disabled, the camera scan icon is hidden on the application screens. This feature applies to iOS, Android, and Windows. Related: Store - Camera Scanner Device and OS Support Manhattan Active Store now supports iOS and iPadOS 14, as well as Android 10 on the Zebra TC52/57 devices. For a full list of supported devices and OS', please check the Supported Technology page.