# Release 21.4

**Permalink:** release-21.4
**Content Length:** 4,273 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:48:00.558797

---

Home&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Release Notes&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;2021 ››Release 21.4 Manhattan Active&reg; Allocation Release Notes 21.4 &nbsp; Method for Generating Lifecycle ProfileStore to Store TransfersMethod Visibility in Allocation ScreensApplication Usability Enhancements Manhattan Active&reg; Allocation enables you to effectively distribute merchandise inventory to the stores by allowing&nbsp;flexibility to define the store needs as per your&nbsp;business requirements. The 21.4&nbsp;release of Manhattan Active Allocation delivers method enhancement and better application usability. &nbsp; Method for Generating Lifecycle Profile Users can select a method to create a Lifecycle Profile, namely - Aggregate Demand Profiling or Bass Diffusion Modeling. &nbsp; Store to Store Transfers Store to Store transfers are suggested by the system when one store has overstock and another has a need for the same product, costs are economical, and DC is out of inventory or all DC inventory has been allocated or included in holdback. These suggestions are given only when all configured conditions are met. &nbsp; Method Visibility in Allocation Screens Method information was previously not available when trying to Modify a Method from allocation or maintenance screens. A section has been added in the header of the Method Selection popup to show the method details for respective locations. &nbsp; Application Usability Enhancements Strategy Information in Allocation Maintenance Strategy information has been added to the Allocation Maintenance card to allow users to view the strategy used for allocation. &nbsp; Color and Size Information on Supply Tiles Color and Size information has been added to supply tiles to help users differentiate between supply tiles of the same style/product. &nbsp; Enhancements on the Geo Map Geo Map in the View Metrics popup is enhanced to support the geo&rsquo;s outside the US as well. &nbsp; Related Links to Assist User Navigation Relevant hyperlinks have been added to the following pages to help a user navigate easily between the associated pages: Product Location Product Location Size Profile