# Release 23.2

**Permalink:** release-23.2
**Path:** Home/Release Notes/Manhattan Active® Omni/2023/Release 23.2
**Content Length:** 63,578 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:52:12.276773

---

Home››Release Notes››Manhattan Active® Omni››2023 ››Release 23.2 Manhattan Active® Omni Release Notes 23.2 Release Date: 4/7/2023 Manhattan Active® Omni Release Notes 23.2Order ManagementEnterprise InventoryEarliest Delivery Date Calculations when Requested Delivery Date Cannot Be MetAllocate from Earliest Inventory when Requested Delivery Date is ApproachingDelivery Dates and Sustainability - Messaging "Ship from Nearby Location"Delivery Dates - Support Requested Delivery DateContinuous Allocation - De-Allocation Grace PeriodOrder SellingOptimized Return RoutingCancel Pending ReturnsTax Failover to Local TaxRefund on Carrier ScanPayment Recovery for Auth FailuresPayment Extension Point Validation for Early InvoicingMiscellaneous Charge Type ExemptionGoogle Shopping Integration - Order Tracking SignalsDigital Self ServiceOrder History: Managing My Orders Gift ReturnsUsability ImprovementsContact CenterShowing Future Date and Future Quantity in Item Search ScreenAbility to Override Aging Date for ReturnsAbility to Override Payment Method for Returns Customer EngagementAuto Assignment of Team and Due Date Within a CasePrevent Agents From Working on the Same CaseAbility to Change the Status of a Closed CasePoint of SalePOS PaymentRefresh Payment StatusStore CommonStore IT Health DashboardBackofficePOS Store OpenPOS Order SellingTax on DemandTax Failover to Local TaxDisable On-screen Keyboard - Order SummaryReturns - Order Receipt Scan AttributeSales Metrics for StoreWaiting Room Deep LinkRemove VAS from OrderStore Customer EngagementCustomer Closet - Expanded View and NavigationStore Inventory & Fulfillment (SIF)Store Order FulfillmentPickup and Ship to Store Orders - Handheld RFID SupportOverhead RFID Support - PickingAccess Confirm Pickups UI from Mobile BrowserClickable Email ID and Phone NumberFind Inventory in all Nearby StoresLate Order Modification - Updated Delivery DatesDeveloper DocumentationStore Inventory ManagementAdjust Inventory - Handheld RFID SupportOverhead RFID Support - Store Count & InventoryRFID Store Count enhancementsUnit Inventory UIAdjust Inventory - Disable Pause and ResumeStore CommonDevice and OS SupportManhattan ProActive™Extensions DashboardExtension Pack Builder EnhancementsDatabase Extensions Order Management Enterprise Inventory Earliest Delivery Date Calculations when Requested Delivery Date Cannot Be Met For B2B orders, it is crucial that the delivery is done as close as possible to the Requested Delivery Date (RDD) so that the target customer's inventory planning remains non-disrupted. Today, in scenarios where a Requested Delivery Date cannot be met, committed delivery dates are computed based on the most pessimistic "Last Possible Delivery Date" on the order. With this feature, committed delivery dates are computed based on the first available inventory which can meet a date as close as possible to RDD. Also, retailers can choose to allocate a more assured inventory in scenarios where the Requested Delivery Date is approaching a certain configurable threshold from the current date. As part of this feature, the release date is also computed as the most optimistic release date where the first unit on the order line can be released, so that the partial units can be released as and when they are eligible. Note: This feature is controlled by an attribute in the save order interface Related: How Scheduling Works - Process How Scheduling Works - Configuration Allocate from Earliest Inventory when Requested Delivery Date is Approaching Retailers can choose to allocate a more assured inventory in scenarios where the Requested Delivery Date is approaching a certain configurable threshold from the current date. As part of this feature, the release date is also computed as the most optimistic release date where the first unit on the order line can be released, so that the partial units can be released as and when they are eligible. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: How Scheduling Works - Process How Scheduling Works - Configuration Delivery Dates and Sustainability - Messaging "Ship from Nearby Location" A fulfillment will always have a lower carbon footprint if the origin of the shipment is within a local radius. In this release, the delivery date API response is enriched to display if the fulfillment center selected for a product or cart is "local" compared to the delivery address, and the notion of what qualifies as "local" is configurable. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Ship From Nearby Location - Configuration Delivery Dates - Support Requested Delivery Date Cart and Product ATP services are enhanced to support Requested Delivery dates at both header and line levels, thereby enabling backward scheduling which determines if the order can be fulfilled within the requested date. As part of the backward scheduling process, the pessimistic scheduling dates are calculated. Note: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Delivery Dates Services Continuous Allocation - De-Allocation Grace Period When orders are released to the fulfillment location based on a schedule, continuous allocation will allow for configurable minutes of grace period after the release process kicks off, thus preventing de-allocation of these orders right around the release schedule. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Grace Period Configuration Order Selling Optimized Return Routing Manhattan Active® Omni provides the flexibility to determine an optimized return center using reverse Adaptive Network Fulfillment (ANF). Retailers can configure incoming orders to go through the reverse ANF process to choose the most optimal return location, if the incoming order does not have a pre-determined return facility. For orders that come in with a pre-determined return facility, Active® Omni will honor it. Locations can be configured to accept returns and are optimized based on a new optimization factor "Inventory Assortment", in addition to the existing optimization factors available in forward promise. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Dynamic Return Routing - Process Dynamic Return Routing - Configuration How Returns Work Cancel Pending Returns Manhattan Active® Omni provides the flexibility to create new return orders by automatically canceling any pending return orders with the exception of store returns. Retailers can create return orders by canceling all the pending return orders or by canceling only the matching pending return items. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Cancel Pending Returns Tax Failover to Local Tax Manhattan Active® Omni provides the flexibility to allow quotation taxes to be retrieved from the local tax configuration in the event of a quotation tax call failure to a third party gateway, instead of placing the order on a 'tax service unavailable' hold. Orders with taxes created from local taxes are flagged for easy identification and can be reconciled in the tax ledger at a later date. This behavior is optional and controlled by configuration. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Tax Refund on Carrier Scan Manhattan Active® Omni provides the flexibility to refund the customer for returns early in the return order cycle when the return package/s is carrier scanned through an automatic return tracking process. This feature allows retailers to either chargeback or refund “more” depending on whether the received package(s) had fewer or more quantities respectively than what was scanned. Additionally, the contact center application is also enhanced to provide visibility for carrier-scanned status and chargeback invoices. Contact center agents also have the ability to mark orders as "Received” to move items to final status in case the items were never received. Related: How Return Works Creating and Updating Order Return Variance Payment Configuration Invoicing and Salesposting Settlement Transactional Emails Transactional Texts Returns and Exchanges In Contact Center Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Payment Recovery for Auth Failures Authorization failures often require a substantial manual effort to be recovered, whether by cold-calling customers or writing off failed payments. Manhattan Active® Omni now provides the feature to increase authorization conversion rates by automatically retrying an authorization transaction for a configurable number of times in case of a failure. Additionally, retailers can configure Manhattan Active® Omni to email the customer to add a new payment from Digital Self-Service, for payments that can not be recovered through automatic retries. Note: These features are controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Authorization Payment Extension Point Validation for Early Invoicing By using 'Payment:Payment:UserExit:EditPaymentTransactionInvoiceLinkRequest' UE request payload, specific invoices can be excluded from getting mapped to the closed payment transaction. For example, if a retailer has a process to manually approve an invoice for refund, this user exit can be used. Note: This feature is automatically available as part of the release. Miscellaneous Charge Type Exemption Miscellaneous charge types can now be exempted from specific order lines to allow invoicing of these charges only when specific items ship. In order to import, define which items should be exempt from such charges. Note: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Exempt Charges Google Shopping Integration - Order Tracking Signals Active® Omni now provides the ability to publish completed order shipment tracking data to Google Shopping to provide more precise estimates for specific product delivery times in Google Shopping. This feature integrates directly with the Google Order Tracking Signals service for customers with a registered Google Merchant Account. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Google Shopping Integration Payment Health Dashboard The Payment Health Dashboard provides broad metrics and KPI's using payment transactional data. The dashboard provides visibility into payments collected, payments that failed to process, and payments that are auto-recovered over a period of time. This provides insights on "Where is the majority of sales coming from", "Which payment gateway is causing maximum failures", "How many failed payments am I recovering and from what channels". Note: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Digital Self Service Order History: Managing My Orders With the growing number of Digital Self Service features, retailers now have the option to utilize a new Manage Orders page that consolidates available features for customer orders. When enabled, customers can access the Manage Orders page from transactional emails or from a retailer's website. For registered customers, a list of orders is displayed, in order by created date. For unregistered customers, a single order is displayed. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Manage Orders Gift Returns Now, gift recipients can initiate returns through Digital Self Service. When the DSS return flow is accessed with the indication that the return is for a gift, the customer is prompted to enter their contact information. The return is marked as a gift return and the corresponding return details are emailed to the customer. Note: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Returns and Exchanges Usability Improvements Shipment Tracking Carrier URL: The tracking number displayed on the shipment tracking page is now displayed as a hyperlink that navigates directly to the carrier website. Edit Return Quantity: Customers can more seamlessly update the return quantity with +/- buttons. Exchange Charges Summary: The return review page now displays a detailed summary of the exchange charges, taxes, and discounts. Note: These features are automatically enabled as part of the release. Contact Center Showing Future Date and Future Quantity in Item Search Screen The item search screen in the call center is enhanced to show the future date and future quantity in scenarios where on-hand quantity is not available. Note: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Item Availability Ability to Set Order Notes and Customer Notes Access Prior to this release, access to order notes and customer notes was universal: all users could add, delete and edit order notes and customer notes. Now organizations can tailor access with grants based on roles. More senior CSR can continue to use the universal grants, and newer users can be associated with grants that limit activity such as deleting notes. There are grants specific to order-notes and different grants for customer-notes. Note: This feature is controlled by resources which are disabled by default. Related: Customer Notes Order Notes Ability to Override Aging Date for Returns Organizations can now set a grant that allows specific users to accept a return that is past the aging date. This provides the flexibility required to support key customers or accommodate specific needs that often occur during the return cycle. If the user has the ability to accept a return past the aging date, they can provide an optional reason code for the override. The release includes default reasons, such as 'near aging window' and 'customer retainment'; the reason is not required but helpful for reporting purposes. Note: This feature is controlled by configuration and resources which are disabled by default. Related: Returns and Exchanges UI Resources Customer Service Call Center Configuration Ability to Override Payment Method for Returns Organizations can now set a grant that allows specific users to override the payment method during the return process in the contact center. In scenarios where the expected refund is supposed to be on a gift card because it was for a gift recipient (or) the refund age was past, customers can have the agent override the refund payment method to the original credit card with which the customer's order was paid. Also, in scenarios where the expected refund is supposed to be the original payment method on the customer order, the customer can choose to get the refund in the form of a physical or electronic gift card. Note: This feature is controlled by configuration and resources which is disabled by default. Related: Returns and Exchanges UI Resources Customer Service Call Center Configuration Customer Engagement Auto Assignment of Team and Due Date Within a Case With the help of team and due date assignment strategies, users can create rules to auto-assign teams to cases based on case category and sub-category and also auto-assign a due date to cases based on case priority. The strategies can be defined and configured based on whether the rule has to be created only when the case is created or even when the case is edited. These rules can be sequenced based on priority and also made active/inactive when needed. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Auto Assignment of Team and Due Date - Process Auto Assignment of Team and Due Date - Configuration Prevent Agents From Working on the Same Case Agents will be notified if they are trying to edit a case that is already being edited by another user. Agents will also see the name of the user who is already editing the case.This makes it easier to avoid conflicting updates to cases. However, with the appropriate permission, they can choose to proceed anyway with the updates or cancel and come back later. A ‘lock’ period can be set in the Customer Engagement Case Configuration to decide how long the case has to be locked out for other users when an agent is working on a case. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Prevent Agents from Working on the Same Case - Process Prevent Agents from Working on the Same Case - Configuration Ability to Change the Status of a Closed Case Contact centre agents can only reopen or change the status of a closed case if they have permission/grant to do so. Without this grant, agents cannot change the status of a closed case. Related: Change the Status of a Closed Case - Process Point of Sale POS Payment Refresh Payment Status A new Refresh function has been created to manually refresh payment on the POS Order Summary screen. The Refresh function should be used for customer-specific payment types whose status is not automatically refreshed, such as pay-by-link, or pay via an external website. The Refresh function is not useful for most routine payment types as their amounts are automatically refreshed by POS, such as integrated credit/debit payments, cash, and so on. Note: This feature is enabled by permission. Related: POS Payment Process Store Common Store IT Health Dashboard A new dashboard has been created to allow the customer’s IT department to view the health status of their stores. The dashboard will inform the team about chain and store issues without having the store associates to notify the team about the issues. The issues will be divided into four areas: item entry, customer entry, payment and receipt. Based on a percentage of the store's transactions, if one of these areas is facing difficulties, the dashboard will display that area as experiencing issues or an outage. Note: This feature is controlled by permissions, and a configuration which remains disabled by default. Related: Store IT Dashboard Backoffice POS Store Open The Store Open functionality has been enhanced with respect to a scenario wherein the Store Open Date is configured to default from the local device system date. Previously, once the store open date was set by the local device, associates were left unable to re-open the store after it was closed for the day.  This causes inconvenience in exceptional scenarios, such as when the store is closed too early accidentally. With the new enhancements in place, associates will be able to re-open the store at a future date even if the store is closed for the current day. However, the store open functionality is limited only to the next business day, and users cannot select any random future date. To also minimize the possibility of accidental closure, if the users try to close the store before 3 PM on a given day, a warning message is displayed to let them know that they are closing the store before the configured time. Further, if the associates try to open the store on a future date, they will not be allowed to close the store until the store open date and the local device date are the same. Note: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release for those retailers who use this configuration. Related: Process Configuration POS Order Selling Tax on Demand Active® Omni now provides flexibility to calculate sales tax for items in a cart batchwise, on demand, suitable for retailers that do not need to display sales taxes as each item is added, but can wait until item entry is complete.  This will allow items to be added and identified/priced more quickly as the tax call will not occur with each and every barcode entry. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Process Configuration Tax Failover to Local Tax Active® Omni provides the flexibility to allow quotation taxes to be retrieved from the local tax configuration in the event of a quotation tax call failure to a third party gateway, instead of putting the order on a 'tax service unavailable' hold. This behavior is optional and controllable by configuration. Note: This feature is automatically available as part of the release. Related: Tax Disable On-screen Keyboard - Order Summary A new configuration has been added to the order summary screen to prevent the on-screen keyboard from popping up on the order summary screen if a physical keyboard is not detected.  This will allow the user to view the entire screen. Users can tap into the "enter amount" field, and the the keyboard will appear. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: POS Cart Configuration Returns - Order Receipt Scan Attribute A new attribute "order>orderCaptureDetail>receiptScanned" has been added to provide some indication of receipt entry during a return. This attribute can be sent to loss prevention should they be interested in identifying orders containing returns for which no original receipt barcodes were scanned (example - returns initiated via handkey, or customer purchase history). If at least one receipt barcode (orderID) is entered by scanning, this new attribute will be saved as True.  Otherwise it will be False. Note: If at least one receipt barcode (orderID) is entered by scanning, this new attribute will be saved as true, otherwise it is false. This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Sales Metrics for Store Store users will be able to access key "flash sales" metrics on the store app to evaluate the store performance without leaving the application.  Sales metrics will be available on the cart, catalog and customer screens. The metrics data is for the current store and day (the logged-in store and current date) and it includes "average sales for the day", amount per transaction, "units per transaction" and "% of transactions associated with the active customer". Note: This feature is controlled by permissions, and a configuration which remains disabled by default. Related: POS Selling Process POS Cart Configuration Waiting Room Deep Link POS UI now supports navigating to the Waiting Room UI using the deep link option. A custom push notification can be used to send information to POS, and upon clicking this notification, users are directly navigated to the Waiting Room. Related: Navigation to Base Page Remove VAS from Order POS now provides the ability to individually remove the applied VAS (Value Added Services) from the individual order line. This feature is enabled by the grant ui::posservice::removevas. Note: This feature is controlled by permissions. Related: POS Selling - Process Store Customer Engagement Customer Closet - Expanded View and Navigation The customer closet has been updated to include an expanded view as well as item navigation.  The expanded view provides a full screen version of the closet to allow the user a better view of the items the customer typically purchases. Users can easily open and close the expanded view at any time from the customer dashboard. Item navigation allows the user to look at the specific item the customer has purchased. By tapping the item image from either the embedded or expanded view, the user navigates directly to the item details for the purchased sku. Users can navigate back to the closet, or can select from other color and size options. The Add-to-menu which is present in the catalog, is also available here. This allows the user to add a different color or size option to the cart, or an omni order. Note: This feature is automatically available as part of the release for those customers who have configured the new dashboard. Related: Process Store Inventory & Fulfillment (SIF) Store Order Fulfillment Pickup and Ship to Store Orders - Handheld RFID Support Store associates can now capture unit-level RFID tags for pickup and ship to store orders. For pickup orders, tags can be captured immediately after picking is completed or any time prior to pick up. If the tags have not been captured before pickup occurs, a warning message is displayed to the associate during the pickup process. In addition to capturing unit-level information for the order, tag capture also helps associates validate if the items were correctly sorted into each order. This functionality applies to Pickup, Curbside and Same Day Delivery orders. For ship to store orders, tags are captured during the receiving process. Note: This feature is controlled by permissions and configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Store RFID Store RFID configuration Picking Capture Tags Receiving Updates for Ship to Store Confirm Pickups Curbside Pickups Same Day Delivery Overhead RFID Support - Picking Retailers can now integrate with overhead RFID systems to receive x and y coordinates, last read date/time and zone for RFID tagged inventory. Picking - Store associates can generate picklists with an optimized pick sequence based on overhead coordinates of unit tags. In addition to presenting the optimized pick sequence to the associate, the travel path is displayed on a store layout map. Store associates can also view a map with the location of all units of an item based on the overhead coordinates during picking. Note: This feature is controlled by permissions and a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Store RFID Store RFID configuration Picking Access Confirm Pickups UI from Mobile Browser Store associates can now access the Confirm Pickups flow on a mobile web browser to complete a pickup transaction. For retailers who do not have the Store mobile application installed on their device, clicking on a deep link URL opens the Order Details UI of Confirm Pickup where the associate can complete or cancel the pickup transaction. The fulfillment ID is included in the link. Note: This feature is automatically available as part of the release. Related: Store - External Deep Linking Clickable Email ID and Phone Number Store associates can now click on the customer's e-mail and phone number in the Confirm Pickup, Curbside Pickup, Contact Customer and Return to Shelf UIs to e-mail or call the customer. The device's default e-mail and phone applications are used. Note: This feature is controlled by permissions and configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Confirm Pickup configuration Contact Customer configuration Return to Shelf configuration Find Inventory in all Nearby Stores The Find Inventory action from the View Inventory UI now displays inventory in all nearby stores, regardless of whether or not the location is configured to fulfill pickup orders. Note: This feature is automatically available with the release. Related: View Inventory Late Order Modification - Updated Delivery Dates Digital Self Service address updates that result in a new estimated delivery date are now updated in SIF, ensuring that the label generation has the accurate delivery date promise. Note: This feature is automatically available with the release. Related: Change Shipping Address Developer Documentation Integration guides have been added for Overhead RFID, Parcel and Same Day Delivery partner integration, and can be accessed at https://developer.manh.com. Store Inventory Management Adjust Inventory - Handheld RFID Support Store associates can now perform inventory adjustments by reading unit-level tags instead of scanning item barcodes. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Store RFID Store RFID configuration Adjust Inventory Overhead RFID Support - Store Count & Inventory Retailers can now integrate with overhead RFID systems to receive x and y coordinates, last read date/time and zone for RFID tagged inventory. Store Count - For stores with both handheld and overhead RFID readers, recent reads from the overhead reader are automatically considered as counted by the store count. Store associates only need to count units which the overhead system has not recently read. A configuration defines how old an overhead last read date/time is considered before the tag’s coordinates are considered obsolete. View Inventory - From the View Inventory UI, store associates can now view a map with the location of units of an item based on the overhead coordinates. This can be used to find the nearest unit of an item, or to locate a unit which isn't where it should be. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default, and the View Inventory functionality is controlled by permissions. Related: Store RFID Store RFID configuration Store Count Store Count configuration View Inventory RFID Store Count enhancements The following improvements are made to Store Count: Store count history - The following data is now captured for a store count: total expected units, total counted units, total missing units, total unexpected units, and the list of users who performed the count. In addition, the list of unit-level tags which were missing, unexpected, unknown items and could not be decoded are logged. Missing list sequencing - The Missing (Available) UI now sorts items by reducing the quantity missing. The Missing (Reserved) UI now groups items by fulfillment types to guide associates to where the missing unit may be in the store. Groupings are Store Pickup, Ship-From-Store, Pullback/Transfer, and Store Initiated Transfer. Within each group, items are sorted by descending quantity missing. Initial store load - When store associates are performing the initial store load, the total count of the new tags is shown in the count summary. Item Information is available for new tags. The initial store load is successfully submitted, and inventory management receives the count update. In the subsequent store count, the counted units, expected units, missing units, and found previously missed units' information is displayed to the store associates. Note: These features are automatically available as part of the release. Related: Store Count - History Store Count - Missing Store Count - Initial store load / store count mode Unit Inventory UI A new UI is available to view records in the Unit Inventory table for the investigation or troubleshooting of a particular unit-level tag. Details such as the tag's location, status, last read date/time and x/y coordinates are available. Note: This feature is controlled by permission. Related: Store RFID Adjust Inventory - Disable Pause and Resume Retailers can now disable pause and resume functionality in the Adjust Inventory UI. When disabled, if the store associate tries to navigate away from the Adjust Inventory UI after a transaction is started, a warning message notifies that they will lose any progress made if they choose to navigate away. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Adjust Inventory Adjust Inventory Configuration Store Common Device and OS Support The Store application now supports the Windows 11 V22H2 OS version. For a full list of supported devices and operating systems, refer to the Certified Technology page. Manhattan ProActive™ The 23.2 ProActive release for Manhattan Active Supply OMNI is outlined below. Extensions Dashboard The Extensions Dashboard provides the user with an overview of the extensions available. The ability to filter extensions and view them based on their deployment status of being deployed or in development provides great flexibility to the user. In addition, statistics are displayed based on the deployment status to provide real-time information about the extensions. Extension Pack Builder Enhancements Database Extensions Previously, the Extension Pack Builder had an option for Entity Extensions. This feature has been migrated under a new option called Database Extensions. Upon selecting a Component and Entity, a landing page will be displayed with three tiles that represent the database extension types of Database Attributes, Flexible Database Attributes and Custom Indexes. The Database Attributes tile displays to the user the percentage of utilized vs remaining space available for entity extensions based on the allocated database row size. Upon selecting this tile, the user can extend the database to suit their business needs. Flexible Database Attributes can also be added instead of using Database Attributes.  These attributes provide an alternative way to add a database extension without altering the database.  This is recommended for Component Entities where there will be a lot of attributes or transactions that will need to be processed. The final tile can be selected to add a Custom Index to the database for the component entity. The component entity can support up to 3 indexes which are represented visually on the tile. Upon selection of the tile, the user can add the indexes needed. Note that you can only index selective database attributes for indexing. Data attributes cannot be indexes.