# Manhattan Active® Omni Release Notes 24.2

**Permalink:** release-24.2
**Path:** Home/Release Notes/Manhattan Active® Omni/2024/Manhattan Active® Omni Release Notes 24.2
**Content Length:** 56,579 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:51:48.720760

---

Home››Release Notes››Manhattan Active® Omni››2024 ››Manhattan Active® Omni Release Notes 24.2 Manhattan Active® Omni Release Notes 24.2 Release date: April 5, 2024 Manhattan Active® Omni Release Notes 24.2Manhattan Active® Order ManagementEnterprise InventoryInventory Location UI EnhancementsSmart Sync EnhancementsKit Items - AvailabilityAvailable To Commerce (New)Auto Generate View SummaryNew Attributes on ATC ViewOrder SellingAdyen Integration EnhancementsOptimize Allocation when Adding New LinesSearch Order API to Display Customer Purchase HistoryCurrency Rounding: South Korean Won and New Taiwan DollarPayment Processing for Refund FailuresShipment Invoice Generation based on Payment StatusRetaining Selling Attributes on Cancelled Order/LinesOrder FulfillmentCustomer Driven Fulfillment - Post Release Quantity IncreaseReturns Shipped to Distribution CenterReturns Shipped to StorePickup Confirmation NotificationShip it Instead for Ship to Store Orders Digital Self-ServiceAdyen Integration Enhancements - Pay By LinkRefund By LinkText Message Opt-In on Shipment TrackingShipment and Return Tracking: UI ImprovementsProduct Recommendations: Availability AnnotationsChatContact CenterResolve Refund FailuresAppeasements at Package LevelEmbed CS/CE UIs in Salesforce CanvasDisplaying ‘Preferred store pickup location’ in Item Details PageCustomer EngagementCustomer Engagement Agent InboxCase Templates EnhancementDisplay Instructions on Case Create/Edit UIs Based on CategoryAgent Status and Channel AssignmentInteraction Routing & CapacityManhattan Active® Point of SalePOS Order SellingCopy Promotional Deal FunctionValidate Order State FunctionCalculate Shipping Methods - Manual OptionItem Sold in Stores configurationPOS Fiscalization and GlobalizationBegium FiscalizationSpain FiscalizationGermany FiscalizationAustria FiscalizationBackoffice TransactionsElectronic Journal Performance EnhancementsManhattan Active® Store Inventory & FulfillmentManhattan Active® Store Order FulfillmentShip It Instead for Ship to Store OrdersManhattan Active® Store Inventory ManagementReturns Shipped to StoreCycle Count enhancementsMatch Late ASN to Blind ReceiptRFID Blind ReceivingRFID Cross-Organization SupportStore CommonOver-the-Air Updates Manhattan Active® Order Management Enterprise Inventory Inventory Location UI Enhancements The Inventory Location UI has been enhanced with a new look and feel, improved filtering capabilities and guided editing for better usability. All existing functionalities remain as-is. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Inventory Location Configuration Smart Sync Enhancements Manhattan Active® Omni now supports a configuration to override the smart sync threshold by Location Id and Location Type. The new "Smart Sync Configuration" enables businesses to establish sync thresholds based on location or location type and define actions, such as ignoring or converting to partial sync, for scenarios where the sync exceeds these thresholds. For example, if the default smart sync thresholds for all the suppliers is 1% but one supplier consistently above threshold and has its sync fail, it is possible to override the sync threshold for that supplier only so that the smart sync validation is not triggered every time. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Smart Sync Smart Sync Configuration Kit Items - Availability Manhattan Active® Omni can now compute and publish the kit item’s availability based on individual component item’s “On Hand” availability. Real-time availability, Availability Sync and Availability Alerts have been enhanced to provide Kit item’s availability. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related : Kit Items Kit Item Availability Configuration Available To Commerce (New) Manhattan Active® Omni has a new and improved Available To Commerce UI. This UI has an updated look and feel, and can be accessed by clicking “Available To Commerce - (New)” from the main menu. For now, this UI is for viewing purposes only. Creating or editing Available To Commerce views should still be executed on the existing Available To Commerce UI. Enablement: This feature is controlled by permissions. Related: Available To Commerce (New) Available to Commerce Grants Configuration Auto Generate View Summary Manhattan Active® Omni is now leveraging Generative AI to display summaries of each Available To Commerce view in the new Available To Commerce - (New) UI. This enables users to quickly understand the view's overview without needing to access the detailed information. Enablement: This feature is controlled by permissions. Related: Available To Commerce (New) Available to Commerce Grants Configuration New Attributes on ATC View Manhattan Active® Omni now supports the following item attributes to be configured as filters in “Available To Commerce”: Ship To Address, Product Sub Class, Size Category Id, Department Number, and Department Name. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: How to Define a View Configure a Rule Set - UI Help Order Selling Adyen Integration Enhancements The Manhattan Active® Omni integration with Adyen for payment processing now supports interaction using PayPal. This allows payment for orders to be authorized, settled, and refunded through PayPal via Adyen. Additionally, support has been added for leveraging Adyen’s internal risk profile functionality for payment fraud review, in addition to extensibility functionality for using payment types that are not supported by the out of box integration. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Adyen Integration - Event Matching Adyen Configuration - PayPal Optimize Allocation when Adding New Lines Retailers can now configure to re-allocate the entire order when a new line is added to an “Allocated” order. This allows the entire order to be optimized, thereby reducing the possibility of split shipments. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Order Line Level Modification Rules Search Order API to Display Customer Purchase History As part of this feature, retailers can have their e-Commerce websites fetch order history details seamlessly from Manhattan Active® Omni. This feature allows e-Commerce websites to search for archived and non-archived orders based on Customer ID and Order Capture Date. The response can be configured to include or exclude information according to specific business requirements. This feature requires existing customers to execute a migration process which will make sure the data is available to provide the necessary search results. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Search Order History Currency Rounding: South Korean Won and New Taiwan Dollar Manhattan Active® Omni now supports currency rounding for the currencies South Korean Won and Taiwan Dollar. With this feature, the amounts are rounded to the nearest whole number for these two currencies. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Currency Rounding Currency Rounding Configuration Payment Processing for Refund Failures Refund failures often require significant manual intervention by contact center agents to process refunds for customers, whether through cold-calling customers or when customers contact agents about refund issues. Manhattan Active® Omni now provides the feature to increase refund conversion rates by automatically retrying a refund transaction for a configurable number of times in case of a failure. Additionally, retailers can configure Manhattan Active® Omni to email the customer to add a new payment via Refund by Link through Digital Self Service. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Refund Retry Refund Retry Configuration Shipment Invoice Generation based on Payment Status Manhattan Active® Omni now provides retailers with the ability to generate shipment invoices for customer orders immediately when the order is paid, thereby allowing them to report taxes as soon as payment is collected from the customer and not wait for the physical goods to be shipped. This feature is supported only when the tax mode is “Quotation”. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Invoicing on Paid Invoicing on Paid Configuration Retaining Selling Attributes on Cancelled Order/Lines Manhattan Active® Omni now retains and publishes charge and tax details for completely cancelled orders and order lines. This allows retailers to handle the following use cases: Provide pricing information in cancellation emails Report on lost sales due to cancellations Refund loyalty points used on cancelled lines Forecast future demand accurately Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Order Cancellations Order Fulfillment Customer Driven Fulfillment - Post Release Quantity Increase Manhattan Active® Omni now supports increasing quantity on released lines for retail orders (B2B). Increased quantities will be allocated and released as new release. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Prevent Post Release Update Returns Shipped to Distribution Center Retailers now have the ability to receive and process returns that are shipped to Manhattan Active® Warehouse Management distribution center. The expected return order details are displayed to the distribution center user who receives and verifies the package contents along with the condition code. Once the package is verified, Manhattan Active® Order Management compares it against what was expected and issues a refund or applies a hold if there was a variance. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Returns Shipped to Distribution Center Configuration Note: Manhattan Active® Warehouse Management inventory updates on return receipt and verification are already processed by Manhattan Active® Omni. No changes to this process. Returns Shipped to Store Refer to Returns Shipped to Store feature in the Store Inventory & Fulfillment section of this document. Pickup Confirmation Notification Manhattan Active® Omni now supports sending pickup confirmation emails or text messages to customers when they pick their items up from the store. This is supported for pick up at store and ship to store items. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Transactional Emails Transactional Texts Ship it Instead for Ship to Store Orders Manhattan Active® Omni now supports converting a ship to store order to a ship to address order. The process mirrors the ship it instead process for pickup orders. For customer-initiated conversions due to no show or shorts, the customer chooses to ship the order instead from the Digital Self-Service Ship It Instead page that is accessed from a pickup reminder email, text, or link from e-commerce. For store-initiated conversions, the store associate initiates the conversion using the Contact Customer UI. For customer and store-initiated no shows, retailers can configure shipping and handling charges and perform address fraud checks. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Customer-Initiated Ship It Instead due to No-Show Customer-Initiated Ship it Instead due to Short Store-Initiated Ship It Instead Digital Self-Service Adyen Integration Enhancements - Pay By Link The Manhattan Active® Omni integration with Adyen for payment processing now supports interaction using PayPal. This includes capturing PayPal payment information using Adyen as a hosted payment provider through the Digital Self-Service Pay By Link and Payment Recovery pages. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Pay By Link - Adyen Configuration Adyen Configuration - PayPal Refund By Link The Manhattan Active® Digital Self-Service now supports sending the customer a link to add their own payment to resolve refund failures. Currently, the system can accept a new credit card from the customer to process the refund, if your payment gateway supports such a flow. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Refund by Link Text Message Opt-In on Shipment Tracking The Manhattan Active® Digital Self-Service now offers the ability to opt-in and opt-out of receiving text messages about their shipments, such as shipment progress notifications or delivery updates. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Opt-In Text Messages Configuration Shipment and Return Tracking: UI Improvements The Manhattan Active® Digital Self-Service now offers enhanced Shipment Tracking and Return Tracking user interfaces. The improvements include displaying the status of all items in the order within a single page, displaying a clear distinction of shipments, and the ability to easily navigate to alternate packages within the order. Enablement: This feature is controlled by Behavior Change, "OM - DSS Shipment/Return Tracking:GUI Improvements".  Please refer to the behavior change document here for additional information on this process and to learn how to take advantage of this feature early for testing and training. Related: Shipment Tracking with Optimized UI Improvements Configuration Product Recommendations: Availability Annotations The product recommendations feature offered by Manhattan Active® Omni, is now enhanced to display annotations about the item’s availability at the customer’s preferred store. The annotations are displayed if the customer has a preferred store set on their profile. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Product Recommendations Configuration Chat The Manhattan Active® Digital Self-Service now allows customers to initiate live chat with an agent leveraging Manhattan Active® Customer Engagement. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Chat Configuration Contact Center Resolve Refund Failures The Manhattan Active® customer service now supports retailers to configure the system to allow contact center agents to resolve any refund failures by enabling them to send a refund by link or capture a new credit card from return order edit screen to process the failed refund. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Customer Service Configuration Resolve Refund Failures Customer Service Refund by Link Appeasements at Package Level The Manhattan Active® customer service now enables contact center agents to apply appeasements at package level. This streamlines the process when a customer reports a lost package and can be used for packages which are shipped but not delivered. The contact center agent can decide whether to refund charges (e.g. S&H, VAS) associated with the package. Once a package is appeased, the customer cannot create a return for the respective quantities of items shipped in the package as the package is assumed to be lost. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Appeasement for Lost Package Embed CS/CE UIs in Salesforce Canvas The Manhattan Active® customer service now supports retailers using Salesforce Service Cloud to embed the Contact Center UIs in the Salesforce Canvas tool. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Displaying ‘Preferred store pickup location’ in Item Details Page The customer’s preferred store is now displayed on the contact center’s Item Details page. This allows visibility for the contact center agent while talking about availability for recommended items in the same store. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Item Search Customer Engagement Customer Engagement Agent Inbox The Customer Engagement Agent Inbox is a full service workspace that contact center agents can use to provide immediate attention to their customers. It streamlines communication by supporting emails, SMS messages, and Live Chats, allowing the agents to navigate between customer’s interactions with ease. The inbox provides access to tools that make the job easier, such as quick order actions, the ability to send product recommendations, and verify an unknown customer. The contact center agent may also research closed cases associated with the customer, wrap up an open case, or navigate smoothly to additional screens, such as the Customer Dashboard or Order Status. Enablement: This feature is controlled by Behavior Change, "OM - Enable CE Interactions UI".  Please refer to the behavior change document here for additional information on this process and to learn how to take advantage of this feature early for testing and training. This feature is also controlled by permissions. Related: Contact Center Agent Inbox Configuration Case Templates Enhancement Case templates, or pre-canned responses, are now supported in the Agent Inbox. These can be configured by channel: Email, Chat, SMS. Each template can also be configured to indicate whether it is a quick response template which allows contact center agents to auto fill their response from these quick response templates in the new Agent Inbox. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Email Response Templates Contact Center Agent Inbox Display Instructions on Case Create/Edit UIs Based on Category Retailers can now have instructions defined for a case category, which is required to be communicated to the contact center agent working on the case so that agent can comply with the instructions without forgetting them. The instructions defined for a case category are displayed on the Edit Case UI as soon as a case category is populated on the case. For example, information about port congestions can be communicated to agents to deal with cases pertaining to shipment delays so that they are better equipped with the latest information to work on the case. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Case Category and Sub-Category Selection Edit Case Agent Status and Channel Assignment To utilize live chat and SMS in the Agent Inbox, agents must indicate when they are available versus not available to receive communications. Seed data exists for Available and Not Available statuses, and additional variations of Not Available status can be configured for visibility (example, On Break, Training, and so on). Agents can set their status and channel assignment from their dashboard, and managers can view and override these selections in the Manager Dashboard. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Agent Availability and Capacity Interaction Routing & Capacity Retailers can now define the maximum number of interactions by interaction type that a contact center agent can handle at any given time. Additionally, they will be able to configure “Queues” based on case attributes that routes the incoming interactions to a group and eventually to an agent. Automatic routing makes sure that the agent is available and capable to process the incoming interaction, and at the same time balances the workload considering the agents' real-time capacity. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Routing Based on Agent Availability/Queue/Capacity Manhattan Active® Point of Sale POS Order Selling Copy Promotional Deal Function Many retailers have multiple promotional deals which are very similar to each other.  For example, both Northeast and Midwest store location groups could have Back to School deals which are identical except start/end dates vary because the school calendars are different in each region. Associates now have the ability to create a deal by cloning an existing deal via the COPY function.   After creation by COPYing, they can edit the new deal if/as required.  In the example above, the user could create MIDWEST Back to School deal by copying NORTHEAST Back to School deal and then revising the start/end dates. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Promo Deal Copy Function Validate Order State Function Retailers can now configure a new API to be called after one of several tender APIs including UpdateReadyForTender.  See ProActive for trigger points, details and use cases.  This will not change any flow in a straight base scenario but gives the retailer an opportunity to control available functions such as the DEPOSIT key on the Order Summary based on custom requirements - they can extensibly evaluate such conditions and return results via the new API. Enablement:  This feature is controlled by configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Enabling Order State Validation Calculate Shipping Methods - Manual Option During POS Ship to Address transactions, POS calls an API which automatically retrieves/displays shipping methods which have been defined as available at POS. POS enforces certain item based shipping method restrictions and certain limited country based shipping method restrictions. With this new option, retailers can configurably disable the automatic logic and fetch shipping methods via an explicit button/function call.  This function will call the current ../snh/shippingmethod API, not a new API. This manual option will be available from the ADD/EDIT address screens.  If the customer shipping address is chosen from a list of existing addresses, the Shipping Methods will be automatically retrieved with current logic. With no customization, in base, this function will retrieve shipping methods exactly as it currently does automatically, but retailers can now choose to extensibly attach extra/custom logic to retrieve shipping methods according to their own shipping method requirements.  For example, they can have custom logic to make certain zip codes and shipping methods mutually exclusive. Enablement:  This feature is controlled by configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Enabling Manual Shipping Method Option Item Sold in Stores configuration In the item master, each item record can now be configured to be considered available or not available to be sold in physical stores.  This will minimize the chance of an associate selling a customer an item which should only be available on the retailer's website, for example.   If not available to be sold in stores, a manager key associated to the appropriate override grant must be provided to add the item to a POS cart. Enablement: This feature is controlled by Change in Behavior, "POS - Handle Item Not Sellable in Store".  Please refer to the behavior change document here for additional information on this process and to learn to take advantage of this feature early for testing and training. Related: Cart Item Not Sellable at Stores POS Fiscalization and Globalization Begium Fiscalization Manhattan Active® Point of Sale product is now compliant with Belgium fiscal regulations. Refer to the I18N and localization guidelines in the configuration guide. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: POS Fiscalization - Belgium Spain Fiscalization Manhattan Active® Point of Sale product is now compliant with Spain fiscal regulations. Refer to the I18N and localization guidelines in the configuration guide. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: POS Fiscalization - Spain Germany Fiscalization Manhattan Active® Point of Sale product is now compliant with Germany fiscal regulations by integration with a third party fiscal provider. Refer to the I18N and localization guidelines in the configuration guide. Enablement:  This feature is controlled by configuration which is disabled by default. Related: POS Fiscalization - Germany Austria Fiscalization Manhattan Active® Point of Sale product is now compliant with Austria fiscal regulations by integration with a third party fiscal provider. Refer to the I18N and localization guidelines in the configuration guide. Enablement:  This feature is controlled by configuration which is disabled by default. Related: POS Fiscalization - Austria Backoffice Transactions Electronic Journal Performance Enhancements Those customers who enable the Electronic Journal can configure a new EJ template for this which improves the application performance.   Searching, filtering, and displaying the EJ are more efficient with this new template. Related: Electronic Journal component configurations Manhattan Active® Store Inventory & Fulfillment Manhattan Active® Store Order Fulfillment Ship It Instead for Ship to Store Orders Refer to the Ship it Instead for Ship to Store Orders feature in the Order Management section of this document. Manhattan Active® Store Inventory Management Returns Shipped to Store Retailers now have the ability to receive and process returns that are shipped to a store. The expected return order details are displayed to the user who verifies the package contents along with item condition. Once the package is received, Order Management compares it against what was expected and issues a refund or applies a hold. This feature works in conjunction with the Optimized Return Routing capability from the Manhattan Active® Omni 23.2 release which can route return orders to stores. Enablement: This feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default as well as by permissions. Related: Receiving Process Receiving Configuration Returns Shipped to Store Store Inventory UI Resources Cycle Count enhancements Several improvements are made to the Cycle Count UI, including: The two counting modes have been renamed to "Items to Count" and "Counted Items" to more accurately describe their operation. When the store user submits the cycle count, a new summary UI is displayed which shows the total number of counted and uncounted items. To support continuous scanning from the Items to Count UI, retailers can disable the quantity popup from automatically appearing after an item scan. The last item scanned by an associate is now sorted to the top of the Items to Count UI and selected to remind the user of the last scanned item. An indicator now displays on the Cycle Count List UI if a count requires recount. Enablement: The suppress quantity pop-up feature is controlled by configuration that is disabled by default. The other features are automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Cycle Count Process Cycle Count Configuration Match Late ASN to Blind Receipt Functionality is now available to match an ASN that systematically arrives late to packages that were already received via blind receiving. When an ASN is received, a check is made to see if the packages on it have already been received through the unknown order flow. If so, those receipt quantities are updated to the ASN package. The match removes the package from appearing on the Receive Inventory UI again as a duplicate package and allows the ASN to be verified. A message with the order number, package ID and actual quantity received is also generated which can be used by external systems to reconcile the late arriving ASN package to the previously received blind package. Enablement: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Receiving Process Receiving Configuration RFID Blind Receiving Store associates can now receive packages for known and unknown orders using a handheld RFID reader. The UI flow is the same as for the non-RFID scenario. Once the user reaches the item details screen, they use the RFID reader to read the contents of the package without having to open the box. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Receiving Process RFID Cross-Organization Support The ship to store, pullback and store-initiated transfer flows now all support shipping to a location in another organization using handheld RFID readers as well as receiving (when the destination location is a store.) Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Shipping Pullbacks & Transfers Store Initiated Transfers Receiving Store RFID Store Common Over-the-Air Updates Over-the-Air (OTA) functionality allows updates to be delivered to the Store application without the need to deploy a new mobile application through a mobile device management (MDM). A rules-based configuration user interface allows IT teams to control which stores or devices receive the updates. Store mobile devices can now remain updated without having to deploy and install a new application. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Store App Update - Over The Air Process