# Release 22.3

**Permalink:** release-22.3
**Path:** Home/Release Notes/Manhattan Active® Omni/2022/Release 22.3
**Content Length:** 34,727 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:52:21.212778

---

Home››Release Notes››Manhattan Active® Omni››2022 ››Release 22.3 Manhattan Active® Omni Release Notes 22.3 Release Date: 7/1/2022 Order ManagementEnterprise InventoryDelivery Date Details Post Order Allocation Enhanced Value-Added Services SupportAllocation of Lines with a Ship from Location or a Specific POOrder FulfillmentCustomer-Driven FulfillmentOrder Line Remorse PeriodDelivery ExceptionsOrder SellingExempt Charges During InvoicingNew Charge TypesDigital Self-ServiceLimit the Number of Pickup ExtensionsCustomer EngagementDisplay Transactions across Organizations on the Customer DashboardPoint of Sale (POS)POS Order SellingBOPIS - Sell More Flow HardeningGift ReceiptFrance Fiscal CompliancePromotion SetupApply Promotions to Only Sale Price ItemsStore Inventory & Fulfillment (SIF)Store Order FulfillmentStore Exceptions ManagementAutomatically Cancel Pick Tasks with no ProgressRemaining Items to Pack Warning MessageShip It Instead to Stores Outside of the United StatesBrand Logo Configuration for Base DocumentsEnhanced Deep Link for Confirm Pickups UILocalization Support for Fulfillment Priority GroupsStore Inventory ManagementStore Exceptions ManagementReceiving - Tracking DetailsPullbacks/Transfers - UI ImprovementsManhattan ProActive™Supply Chain Desktop UI Extension Editor Enhancements Warehouse Mobile UI Extension Editor Enhancements  Post-Validation Report JSON Store Support for Extended Attributes Extension Point Documentation Improvements Order Management Enterprise Inventory Delivery Date Details Post Order Allocation When an order line is allocated from multiple supply records at a single location, for example, I ordered 10 units, 2 are allocated to on-hand inventory and 8 against a PO arriving in 2 weeks. Manhattan Active® Omni currently returns earliest dates (ship and delivery) based on the latest date. In this example, the dates are based on the PO. In order to inform the customer that there will be two shipments on two different dates, Active Omni has been enhanced to publish the earliest dates (ship & delivery) at the quantity level. The detailed supply information, such as PO#, ETA are also included. The following use cases are supported: The ability to publish the earliest ship and delivery dates and supply details in the Publish Order and Publish Order Line messages by including the additional attributes in the Publish Order template. The ability to publish the earliest dates and supply details as part of Get Order API response The ability to communicate the changes to the earliest dates when the allocation changes. A new Order line modification type has been introduced to publish the Order when the dates change. Note: This feature is automatically available as part of the release. It requires Order mod type configuration and publish order template change for the information to be visible. Related: Mod Types Enhanced Value-Added Services Support Delivery date APIs (Cart & Product) are enhanced with the following features: Use value added services (VAS) as an additional constraint for allocation for BOPIS and Ship to address orders. Location(s) that does not support the value-added service will not be eligible for fulfillment. The value added services that a location supports can be configured for the inventory location. Note: This feature is enabled using Promising config parameters - "ValidateVASEligibility". If set to True, then true VAS constraints for BOPIS orders can be controlled using promising config parameters - "IgnoreVasValidationForBOPIS". By default, this feature is not enabled. Related: Validate VAS Allocation of Lines with a Ship from Location or a Specific PO Fulfillment optimization now supports orders with a subset of lines including a requested PO or Ship from a location. Prior to this change, the lines with requested PO were backordered unless future inventory was in view, and the lines with the requested ship from location were backordered unless the location was in view and configured in fulfillment the optimization. Example: An ATC view contains only on hand available inventory and is configured in the fulfillment optimization configuration. Consider an order with two lines One line is allocated against on-hand inventory One line has a specific PO or ASN ID as the source of allocation. In this case, since the future inventory is not in the ATC view, the second line is currently back ordered. With this release, line(s) with requested PO or the Ship from location can still be allocated even though the future supply or ship from the location is not part of the view. Note: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: How promising works Order Fulfillment Customer-Driven Fulfillment When an order line is partially released, it's now possible to update the shipping method, address, carrier/service level, requested delivery date, and merge route for un-released quantities. This update triggers a cancelation of the unreleased quantities from the original line and creates a new line with these quantities and updated values. In this release, post release line level changes are possible on orders where payment, pricing, taxes, and charges are disabled. Note: Configuration is available in the Order Line mod type (Order configuration) to decide if the update should apply to unreleased quantities and the line should be split. It is generally defaulted to "Not enabled". This feature is incompatible with other post release updates that triggers an update on the already released quantities. Related: Mod Types Order Line Remorse Period A unique remorse period can now be configured for order lines, instead of using a single remorse period for all items on an order. Remorse period can be configured based on attributes like Delivery Method, Shipping Method, or Order Type. The remorse period can now be skipped because of a list of order lines. For example, same-day delivery items should be released immediately to meet the service level agreement, while items shipping shipped on standard ground should follow a 2-hour remorse period. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Order Line Remorse Period Delivery Exceptions Customers can now be notified via text and email if their delivery is delayed or if delivery was attempted. Delivery tracking is supported via out of the box integration with UPS, FedEx, and USPS. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Delivery Tracking Order Selling Exempt Charges During Invoicing Currently, shipping charges are prorated across all the lines, resulting in charging the entire shipping charges during the first shipment or a prorated value on every shipment. Few retailers do not want to charge the shipping upfront on items with a specific shipping method. In this release, charges belonging to charge types "Shipping" or "Handling" can be exempted during invoice creation. During order import, retailers can define which lines can be exempted from charging. When Shipping/Handling charges are exempted, then these charges are not prorated to the line(s) which are exempted and, thereby, when the same line(s) is shipped, the customer will not be charged. Note: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Exempt Charges New Charge Types New miscellaneous charge types are introduced to use for additional charge types like donations, tips, etc. Charge Types: Miscellaneous 1 to Miscellaneous 6. Note: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Digital Self-Service Limit the Number of Pickup Extensions A new parameter is available to limit the number of times a customer can extend the pickup window through Digital Self-Service. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Extend Pickup Window Customer Engagement Display Transactions across Organizations on the Customer Dashboard Retailers can now view transactions across organizations in the Customer Dashboard in Customer Engagement. Users can proceed with actions such as view order status, return, and cancel. Note: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Cross-Org Order Visibility in the Customer Transactions UI in Customer Engagement Point of Sale (POS) POS Order Selling BOPIS - Sell More Flow Hardening To ensure users do not accidentally pull multiple pickup orders into the POS Cart, leaving them in a bad state, additional warning messages have been added into the flow. If a user attempts to pull a second order in via multi-tasking while a BOPIS-Sell More is in process, they will be given the option to continue the existing Sell More order in the Cart, or to switch to the new order. If they choose to switch to the new order, the originally added order will be put back into a clean status, available to be CONFIRMED later.  Any SELL MORE items which may have been added will be auto-voided. Note: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Gift Receipt Sometimes, customers decide to purchase items and present them to their friends or family. In such scenarios, many times they prefer to handover a sales receipt which can be used for return or exchange the gifted items. POS allows customers to create one or more gift receipts(s) to print or receive email. With prior flow, the user needed to premark items for Gift Receipt during the course of the cart transaction. With the new flow,  the user need not pre-select the items.  With the proper grants and configurations, the user waits until the receipt screen to decide if Gift Receipts are required, how many, and for which items. Related: Gift Receipts Enablement - Business Flags and Grants France Fiscal Compliance The French government requires strict adherence to a set of fiscal laws intended to limit VAT fraud and make transactional data at Point of Sale unchangeable. These requirements include making transactions inalterable, secure in that they are signed with a digital signature, retained and accessible through periodic reports, and archived for at least seven years. Additionally, the mandates include specific data elements which must be captured, printed on customer receipts, store within the transactional archive and an electronic journal. As a final step, a French auditor such as Infocert must audit and provide a certification for the Point of Sale software before it can be used in a French store. This release is the first to be certified to operate in France for Point of Sale transactions after having completed a comprehensive audit with Infocert. Note: The final certification audit with Infocert is scheduled for completion by the end of June 2022. Promotion Setup Apply Promotions to Only Sale Price Items Retailers would like the flexibility to apply promotions to those items which are already on sale, and to exclude full-priced items. A new configuration within promotions has been added to accommodate this functionality to Item-based deals. Related: Pricing and Promotional Events Configuration Store Inventory & Fulfillment (SIF) Store Order Fulfillment Store Exceptions Management Store managers now have immediate visibility into store exceptions in the application so that they can take corrective action. Based on permissions, the Store application displays the number of exceptions that currently exist in the store, along with a link to resolve the exceptions. The following Store Fulfillment exception types are available: Packages without a shipping label - The number of packages which are packed but do not have a tracking number is displayed. Based on permissions, the store user can navigate directly to the Completed Shipment UI where they can generate the shipping labels. The ability to create custom exception types also exists. Note: This feature is controlled by configurations which are disabled by default, as well as by permissions. Related: Store Exception Configuration Store Common UI Resources Shipping Process Automatically Cancel Pick Tasks with no Progress Retailers can now automatically cancel picking tasks that have been created but have no picking progress without requiring manual intervention. This automatically places these stuck orders back into the pool of fulfillments that are eligible for picking so that another associate can pick them up before customer SLAs are impacted. Business configurations determine how long a pickup or shipment pick task can be idle before a job scheduler cancels them. Customer pickup and shipment pick tasks for which no units have been picked or shorted are eligible for cancellation. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Picking Process Picking Configuration Remaining Items to Pack Warning Message A warning message can now be displayed to store associates if they attempt to close a package before all units for the order have been packed. This message can be used to encourage store associates to minimize the number of packages shipped for the same order. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Packing Process Packing Configuration Ship It Instead to Stores Outside of the United States Stores outside of the US can now leverage store-initiated shipping instead of functionality for customers within the same country. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is enabled by default. Related: Store-initiated Ship it Instead Configuration Brand Logo Configuration for Base Documents A retailer's brand logo can now be added to base customer-facing documents through image URL configuration, without the need for customization. This applies to picklists, same day delivery slips and packing slips. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Printing Enhanced Deep Link for Confirm Pickups UI The Confirm Pickup UI has been enhanced to accept a keyword as part of a deep link. This allows retailers to link directly to the Order Details page of Confirm Pickups if customer order information is passed. Note: This feature is automatically available as part of the release. Related: Store External Deep Linking Localization Support for Fulfillment Priority Groups The Prepare Pickups and Prepare Shipments UIs now support displaying fulfillment priority groups in a localized language. Note: This feature is automatically available as part of the release. Related: Translation Guide Picking Configuration Store Inventory Management Store Exceptions Management Store managers now have immediate visibility into store exceptions in the application so that they can take corrective action. Based on permissions, the Store application displays the number of exceptions that currently exist in the store, along with a link to resolve the exceptions. The following Store Inventory exception types are available: Inventory In error - The number of item/supply type records which are marked in error due to rejection / shorting from store during fulfillment of customer orders is displayed. Based on permissions, the store user can navigate directly to the View Inventory UI where they can view the inventory levels and resolve the error or mark the item as out of stock. Negative inventory - The number of item/supply type records with inventory that is less than zero is displayed. Based on permissions, the store user can navigate directly to the View Inventory UI where they can view the inventory levels as well as mark the item as out of stock. This action marks the supply type record to zero. The ability to create custom exception types also exists. Note: This feature is controlled by configurations which are disabled by default, as well as by permissions. Related: Store Exception Configuration Store Common UI Resources Store Inventory UI Resources View Inventory Process Receiving - Tracking Details Store associates are now able to view the latest tracking detail from carriers for in-transit packages from the Receiving Expected Packages UI. Visibility includes the carrier tracking number and tracking history. This is available for both customer and store replenishment packages. Note: This feature is controlled by permissions and is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Receiving Process Receiving Configuration Store Inventory UI Resources Pullbacks/Transfers - UI Improvements Several UI improvements have been added to the Pullbacks/Transfers UI to enhance the user experience: A warning message can now be displayed to store associates if they attempt to close a package before all units for the order have been packed. This message can be used to encourage store associates to minimize the number of packages shipped for the same order. This message is controlled by configuration. Improved item packing progress bar indicator Button label changes to improve consistency with the Customer Order Shipment packing flow Note: This feature is automatically available as part of the release, except for the warning message which is controlled by configuration. Related: Pullbacks Transfers Process Pullbacks Transfers Configuration Manhattan ProActive™ The Manhattan Active® Supply Chain has added  enhancements to Manhattan ProActive™ which have further improved the extensibility capabilities, and continues to improve API (Application Programming Interface) documentation and the capabilities of the UI Extension Editor. The following are the improvements to the ProActive documentation: Supply Chain Desktop UI Extension Editor Enhancements Provided the ability to add, remove, reposition, and extend attributes on detail screens accessed by viewing or editing a card from a list screen. Warehouse Mobile UI Extension Editor Enhancements Add the element list based on the action selected when adding condition(s) to a step. Dot is allowed as a valid character for input and label fields. Newly created steps are now displayed at the top of the list with a custom badge when leaving and returning to workflow. Post-Validation Report The Post-Validation Report is enhanced to include extension pack changes by profile ID. JSON Store Support for Extended Attributes Added JSON Store functionality for storing extended attributes. When creating the extension pack, users will be able to choose between storing the attribute in the JSON store or, by using the existing framework which provides the capability to add individual database fields. Extension Point Documentation Improvements Improvements are made to the ProActive documentation’s getting started page along with other changes to improve formatting for component documentation. Users can also now choose to view the featured API documentation for a component or they can choose to see all of the documentation for the component selected.