# Release Notes 23.2 

**Permalink:** release-notes-2-2-2
**Content Length:** 21,394 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:47:46.218851

---

Home&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Release Notes&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;2023 ››Release Notes 23.2 Manhattan Active&reg; Allocation Release Notes 23.2 &nbsp; KEY FEATURES:Manage Allocations By RegionsManage Allocations with Aggregate Plan&nbsp;First Sale DateOrder by Origin Destination Pair and Order Release PolicyAdd Allocation Phases&nbsp;into Need AdjustmentManhattan ProActive&trade;&nbsp;Developer Documentation&nbsp;Manage Extension Packs&nbsp;Configuring Extensions&nbsp;Profile Based Deployment&nbsp;Register API Definitions&nbsp;Composite APIs&nbsp;Database Extensions&nbsp;&nbsp;User Exits&nbsp;&nbsp;Events&nbsp;&nbsp;UI Extensions&nbsp;Allocation Desktop Editor&nbsp; The 23.2 release of Manhattan Active Allocation is focused on ensuring Manhattan&rsquo;s allocation solution is even simpler to use while achieving maximum returns on inventory.&nbsp;&nbsp; The newest additions included in the 23.2 release of Manhattan Active Allocation improve the overall usability of several core allocation functions as well as simplify various configuration tasks. Some of the most significant features are summarized below. KEY FEATURES: &nbsp; Manage Allocations By Regions MAA now supports a collaborative review and submission of allocated supplies. Co-allocators teams can be set up and managed by using the Manage Teams UI. These teams of co-allocators can then be assigned to the location categories that they are responsible for. A minimum of one allocator from each assigned team will be required to review and submit the allocated supply before that supply is submitted and ready for review. A new supply status &lsquo;Partial Submit&rsquo; is now added to the supplies that are pending submissions from one or more teams. This status can be seen on Allocated Supplies and Allocation Maintenance screens. &nbsp; Note&nbsp;- This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Allocator Assignments Allocation Maintenance Allocated Supplies Customer Engagement Configurations Master Data Guide Manage Allocations with Aggregate Plan&nbsp; In the previous release, MAA had added the ability to set up an Aggregate Plan at multiple levels of location hierarchy. For example, Region, Country, and Channel. In this release, MAA has added the ability to use the aggregate plan and related attributes&nbsp;calculated by MAA as Auto Submit-Approval criteria&nbsp;to manage the flow of allocations.&nbsp; Aggregate Plan&nbsp;can be used as a threshold to stop Auto Submission and Approval of Allocations. The Aggregate Plan can be uploaded and adjusted using the &#39;Review Aggregate Plan&#39; icon on the Allocation Maintenance screen or the Aggregate Plan Metric link&nbsp;from&nbsp;the Menu. When Auto Submit-Approval is stopped, MAA will display a message on Allocation Supplies UI, notifying the users with information about the&nbsp;reason&nbsp;that stopped the automated flow. &nbsp; Note&nbsp;- This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Aggregate Plan Metric Allocation Maintenance &nbsp; First Sale Date Going forward, we will populate the first sale date for an item-location based on the sales interfaced for that item-location. This attribute is visible on the item-location screen. Users can then define business rules for allocation based on how far this date is from the season start date for that item-location. &nbsp; Note: Users can specify a set of metric of type sales, and the application will pick up the first date on all these sales as the first sale date for the item location. Related: Item Location Order by Origin Destination Pair and Order Release Policy Previously, Manhattan Active&reg; Allocation (MAA)&rsquo;s supply-centric logic would create one distribution order header for each supply.&nbsp; This order is unique by item, source location, source type, and source id. &nbsp; In this release, MAA has added the ability for each organization to create an Order Policy. Upon supply approval, MAA generates the corresponding Order and Order Lines in Open status. Order Policy defines the criteria and distinct attributes for aggregating Order Lines into an Order.&nbsp; &nbsp;Order Policy also includes a few criteria for auto-releasing Orders into an API such as setting the maximum number of order lines in an order, the minimum order quantity, the supply source type (e.g., on hand or future supplies). When the number of Order Lines are exceeded, MAA will generate a new order and attach the remaining Order Lines to this new Order. &nbsp; Two possible scheduled jobs are available for auto-releasing Orders: The first job checks for the order policy criteria before releasing an order.&nbsp; The second job releases all unreleased orders without checking any of the policy criteria. A user can also manually release Orders from the Orders UI.&nbsp; Manual order release triggers the second job to run.&nbsp; MAA generates the order API (Approved Order JSON) and publishes it into a queue (e.g., ai-all-xin-orderToMAO queue), ready to be consumed by another system.&nbsp; MAA also updates the Order status to Released and updates the Supply status to either Released or to Partial Release, depending on whether all of the associated Order(s) have been released or not. &nbsp; &nbsp; Note&nbsp;- This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Order Release Policy Order Policy Orders Order Lines &nbsp; Add Allocation Phases&nbsp;into Need Adjustment Users can now specify for which season phases a Need Adjustment is applied. Each season, Pre-Season, In-Season, and End-of-Season, has a Yes/No configuration to indicate if product locations in that phase during the Need Adjustment period are to be adjusted. The new phase configurations are used in combination with location and product configurations to determine for which product locations the need is to be adjusted. &nbsp; Note&nbsp;- This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Need Adjustments Manhattan ProActive&trade;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; The 23.2 release of Manhattan Active&reg; Allocation includes Manhattan ProActive&trade;, a tool to help customize the product and manage extensions.&nbsp; Manhattan ProActive&trade; provides the ability to configure and deploy extensions to any layer of the Manhattan Active&reg; Allocation application. Manhattan ProActive also provides the ability to browse and discover APIs through a dedicated documentation portal.&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; Note: ProActive is only available to users of the Manhattan System Organization in your environment. Errors will occur if users in your business organizations are given grants for ProActive.&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; Developer Documentation&nbsp; Manhattan ProActive allows you to browse and discover key backend API and Extension points. Users can browse documentation through the underlying Manhattan Active Allocation product or simply search for an API or extension point with key words across the product suite. Documentation follows industry standard OpenAPI specifications. In addition to API documentation, users can browse various entities of the Manhattan Active Allocation data model and select to download the Data Dictionary. An excel workbook with details of the entity-attributes and corresponding database table-column mapping is downloaded.&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; Manage Extension Packs&nbsp; Manhattan ProActive uses the concept of an Extension Pack to gather all the extension configurations related to a functional extension. An Extension Pack can be moved from one environment to another. So, if the user chooses to build and test the extension in a development environment, the extension pack can be easily moved from a test or production environment. This is accomplished by exporting the Extension Pack from one environment and importing it into the required environment.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; Configuring Extensions&nbsp; An extension pack can include extensions to the user-interface, backend services, as well as the database tables. The extension configuration wizard walks the user through the configuration steps including registering the service(s) to be called, as well as the extension call workflow.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; Profile Based Deployment&nbsp; When specifying the Extension Pack Details such as name and description, the user can define which profiles the extension pack should be deployed with. The user can select one or more profiles based on the Profile Name, Organization, Facility and Business Unit combinations of their choice. Different extensions can be deployed to different profiles to suit the business needs of the Organization, Facility and Business Unit.&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; Register API Definitions&nbsp; Users can register an API definition to connect to an external service or other Manhattan Active Component APIs within the extension pack.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; Composite APIs&nbsp; A Composite API can also be configured within the extension pack. This is a type of API Definition that functions as a reusable Extension Handler. When you have an identical workflow within different Extension Handlers, you can simplify those flows into a single Extension Handler that will be called a Composite API. When invoked, the Composite API will call the Extension Handler that initiates the workflows attributed to it.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; Database Extensions&nbsp;&nbsp; Users that wish to extend the application by adding custom attributes in the Manhattan application to suit your business needs can do this by configuring a Database Extension within the extension pack. Upon selecting a Component and Entity, a landing page will be displayed with three tiles that represent the database extension types of Database&nbsp;Attributes, Flexible&nbsp;Database Attributes and Custom Indexes.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; The Database&nbsp;Attributes tile displays to the user the percentage of utilized vs remaining space available for extensions on the entities database table. Upon selecting this tile, the user can extend the database to suit their business needs.&nbsp; &nbsp; Flexible Database Attributes can also be added instead of using Databse&nbsp;Attributes.&nbsp; These attributes provide an alternative way to add the extension without storing them in the database.&nbsp; This is recommended for Component Entities where there will be a lot of attributes or transactions that will need to be processed.&nbsp; &nbsp; The final tile can be selected to add a Custom Index to the database for the component entity. The component entity can support up to 3 indexes which are represented visually on the tile. Upon selection of the tile the user can add the indexes needed.&nbsp; &nbsp; User Exits&nbsp;&nbsp; User Exits are pre-built, natural exits that have been built to allow users to easily configure integrations or APIs that are external to the Manhattan application.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; Events&nbsp;&nbsp; Events configured in the extension pack use pre-built, natural exits (Extension Points) that Manhattan has built for users to easily post asynchronous/event-based messages to a queue.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; UI Extensions&nbsp; The UI Extensions page of the Extension Pack gives the user the ability to tailor the Allocation Desktop screen experience to meet the needs of the end user.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; Allocation Desktop Editor&nbsp; Manhattan Active Allocation provides a modern, omni-channel approach to optimizing the deployment of inventory across retail networks. The Application provides a rich, browser-based user experience for both allocators and their managers to facilitate allocation related tasks as well as monitor overall inventory performance. The desktop extension pack editor is a design space to tailor the desktop screen experience to fit your end users&rsquo; needs. In this space, you can do things like edit and rearrange UI fields, add extended attributes, add actions, and more.&nbsp; &nbsp;