# Release 21.3

**Permalink:** release-notes-21.3
**Path:** Home/Release Notes/Manhattan Active® Omni/2021/Release 21.3
**Content Length:** 43,308 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:52:31.545386

---

Home››Release Notes››Manhattan Active® Omni››2021 ››Release 21.3 Manhattan Active® Omni Release Notes 21.3 Release Date: 7.2.2021 Order ManagementLate Order Cancellation for Ship to Home and BOPISLate Order Cancellation for Ship to Home Items in the Contact CenterLate Order Cancellation for Ship to Home Items in Digital Self-ServiceLate Order Cancellations for Ship to Home Items in Store FulfillmentCurbside Pickups: On the Way DistanceCurbside Pickups - On the Way Distance in Digital Self-ServiceCurbside Pickups - On the Way Distance in Store FulfillmentContact CenterReminder to Confirm ChangesView Order Line Cancellation ReasonOrder Timeline EnhancementEnterprise InventoryInteractive Inventory - Hot SKU Support with Reservations from CachePromise/Delivery Dates - Using Selling Price DifferentialOrder SellingSequential External Invoice IDMaintain the 'Return to Shelf' Date on BOPIS LinesReturn Labels for Returns against BOPIS and POS ItemsDigital Self-ServiceDefault Shipping MethodsShipment Tracking: Status of Other Items in the OrderLocalized Return ReasonsCustomer EngagementPurge and ArchiveCase Sub-CategoryPoint of Sale (POS)POS Order SellingLinking Employees to CustomerCustomer De-DuplicationGuest Checkout - Control by fulfillment methodPickup Orders - Bypass Address Collection for PickupSupport Canada TaxationPromotion On Price MarkdownGift Card Activation in CartBack-office TransactionsEJ LocalizationEJ Receipt Print Mod TypePayment Type Configuration for Back-office OperationStore CommonStore App recovery from TerminationStore Inventory & Fulfillment (SIF) Store Order FulfillmentSame Day DeliveryLate Order CancellationPickup Orders - Require Staging LocationCurbside Pickups - "On the Way" DistanceShipment Orders - FedEx SmartPost Ancillary Endorsement for LogistyxLeft-Hand Navigation PanelStore Inventory ManagementCycle Count - Item level reviewCycle Count - Remaining Counts Quantity Pop-up Cancel Button ChangeStore-Initiated Transfers - Limit Maximum QuantityStore-Initiated Transfers - Auto-select Carrier and Service Level Order Management Late Order Cancellation for Ship to Home and BOPIS See Late Order Cancellation video Late Order Cancellation for Ship to Home Items in the Contact Center Customer service agents can now cancel ship to home items after they have been released for fulfillment. With this feature, customer service can cancel ship to home and buy online, pick up at store (BOPIS) items after they've been released for fulfillment. Ship to store items can be cancelled up until released status. Manhattan Active® Omni delivers a seamless late order cancellation experience through Digital Self-Service (DSS) or Contact Center in conjunction with Store Inventory & Fulfillment (SIF). For orders fulfilled from distribution centers or non-Manhattan Active store systems, a user exit can be used to process cancellations. Related: Late Order Cancellation Late Order Cancellation for Ship to Home Items in Digital Self-Service In Digital Self-Service, customers can now cancel ship to home items after they have been released for fulfillment. With this feature, end customers can cancel ship to home and buy online, pick up at store (BOPIS) items after they've been released for fulfillment. Ship to store items can be cancelled up until released status. Related: Late Order Cancellation Cancellations Late Order Cancellations for Ship to Home Items in Store Fulfillment Shipment orders can now be cancelled until packing begins. If the cancellation of shipment order occur after the order has been picked, the associate is notified on the packing UI that item(s) must be removed from the order. The entire order can be cancelled, or part of an order. This feature is controlled by configuration. Related: Late Order Cancellation Late Order Cancellation Configuration Curbside Pickups: On the Way Distance Curbside Pickups - On the Way Distance in Digital Self-Service When the customer notifies the store that they are on the way to pick up their curbside order, the customer's distance from the store is saved and can be used for reporting purposes. Related: Curbside Pickup Curbside Pickups - On the Way Distance in Store Fulfillment When the customer notifies the store that they are on the way to pick up their curbside order, the customer's distance from the store is saved and can be used for reporting purposes. Contact Center Reminder to Confirm Changes Contact center agents are now reminded to confirm changes prior to leaving the Edit Order page. Reminding agents to confirm changes ensures that payment is processed for any order modifications. Related: Customer Service Modify an Order Process Guide View Order Line Cancellation Reason Contact center agents can now view order line cancellation reason and comments on the Order Status and Customer Transactions pages. Order Timeline Enhancement The Order Timeline now displays events related to Surcharges charge types. Related: Customer Service Process Enterprise Inventory Interactive Inventory - Hot SKU Support with Reservations from Cache The new availability cache will be the source of truth for reservations. While processing real-time reservations from different selling channels, the new availability cache keeps track of the incoming reserved quantity which is then updated to the supply database at a later point. As a result, the cache is the primary source of truth as it always maintains the actual allocated quantity and the reserved quantity that is yet to be reconciled at any given point. This solves the classic "HOT SKU" problem where multiple reservations for a hot-selling item attempts to update the same supply record and fails due to database locking. This feature can be turned on/off using a new configuration provided as part of Interactive Inventory parameters. Related: Availability Cache Data Structures Reservations from Cache Promise/Delivery Dates - Using Selling Price Differential Interactive Inventory provides Manhattan Active® Omni customers with a Promising Engine that can be leveraged from all selling channels in real time, considering thousands of locations. This enables our customers to provide delivery dates in product detail page, view cart and checkout for all service levels. This eliminates the need to synchronize inventory updates to selling channel, thus reducing latency and improving accuracy. With Interactive Inventory, the ATP services will aid in computing delivery dates (Estimated Delivery Date, Estimated Shipping Date, ETA) for the Product Details Page and View Cart/Checkout pages respectively for different service levels. In addition to “Location Proximity” and “Handling Cost”, “Selling Price Differential” has been added as an optimization factor to use when calling  the cart and product ATP calls to display earliest delivery dates on product details page, view cart and in the checkout. This allows retailers to promise dates based on distressed inventory. Related: Significance of Selling price Differential in evaluating the best location Optimization cache - New Price Margin cache Compute Delivery Dates - Process flow Interactive Inventory Order Selling Sequential External Invoice ID In some countries, regulations mandate each invoice have a unique ID in a specific format. This ID is generally composed of a prefix, the year and a sequential number. An External Invoice ID attribute on the invoice can now be populated with a sequential value during the Sales Posting process. Related: Invoicing and Sales Posting guide Maintain the 'Return to Shelf' Date on BOPIS Lines The store pickup expiry date (also called the 'Hold Until' date in the Store application) is now saved on the order and can be used to trigger pickup reminder emails/texts. The pickup expiry date is the last date the customer can pick up the order; after this date, the store returns the items to the shelf. The pickup expiry date is initially calculated when the item is picked in store and is communicated via the picked status update order event. The initial pickup expiry date can be updated in two ways: a customer can call the store and request the item be held for longer, and customers can extend their pickup window using Digital Self-Service. If the pickup expiry date is modified, the order line pickup expiry date is updated. This ensures pickup reminders are triggered based on the latest expiry date. Related: Types of Order Events Status Update Events Fulfillment Update Events Transactional Emails Return Labels for Returns against BOPIS and POS Items Return shipping labels can now be created for returns against BOPIS, ship to store, and Point of Sale (POS) items. These items do not have a ship-to address, but carriers often require a ship-from address when generating return labels. This feature enables return labels to be generated for such items by using a default address for the return center. Related: Return Labels for BOPIS & POS Items Digital Self-Service Default Shipping Methods Retailers can configure the shipping method used for return lines created in Digital Self-Service. The shipping method for exchange lines can also be configured. Related: Default Shipping Methods Shipment Tracking: Status of Other Items in the Order In the Digital Self-Service Shipment Tracking Page, customers can now view all items and shipments related to an order. If an order is shipped in multiple packages, the customer can view the tracking details, ETA, and delivered date of each package from a single page. If not all items are shipped yet, the customer can view the status of all items, including those in any fulfillment status. By providing the customer visibility into the status of all items on their order, the volume of "Where is my Order?" calls will be reduced when split shipments occur. Related: Shipment Tracking Localized Return Reasons In the Digital Self-Service Return Page, reason codes are now localized to the users location to provide even greater usability to our global customers. Related: Localized Return Reasons Customer Engagement Purge and Archive Customer Engagement now has the ability to archive cases along with their related interactions and also purge other data such as email logs, social and independent interactions from the system after a configurable period of time. This will be a mandatory process to ensure the system performs well.  The number of days to archive or purge can be set via a configuration where 365 days is the default and maximum number of days before data gets purged or archived. You can view active or archived cases in the case list UI by switching the 'state' filter from Active to Archive or vice versa and selecting at least one other filter criteria before clicking on apply. Related: Customer Engagement Archive and Purge Case Sub-Category Contact center agents can now select a sub-category when creating or editing a case. Define a list of sub-categories for each category to enhance the level of detail available to agents and in reporting. Related: Case Category and Sub-Category Selection Point of Sale (POS) POS Order Selling Linking Employees to Customer Retailers now have the ability to link the employee number to the customer and display the same at the customer profile screen. This feature is controlled by specific grants and only the user roles having the required grant can view, add and modify the employee record on the customer profile. This feature is available from the base and only the grants has to be added to the user role to allow linking and display. Additionally, the return orders created for the employee transaction or sales transactions with the employee number can be auto linked to the specific employee or employee-customer relation. Prior to this release there was no way to link the employee number to the return order. From this release onwards user have the ability to automatically link the return order to the employee number present on the original order. This feature is controlled using a business flag. Related: POS Selling Process POS Cart Configuration Resources POS Cart Configuration Store Config Customer De-Duplication When a customer has more than one customerID, the retailer may choose to mark all but one as inactive via a 'dedupe' utility of some sort.  However, if the inactive ID has an order associated to it, the user is unable to locate it.  With this new feature, when alternate IDs are added as a child to the main customer record, any orders placed under the now inactive ID will appear under the main customer purchase history record. Returns for such orders can be initiated from here, or if the return is initiated off of an old receipt, the return transaction will now appear under the main customer's history. This feature is not configuration-enabled and is available by default for all users. Guest Checkout - Control by fulfillment method The ability to perform Guest checkout can now be controlled via grant at user level separately for each fulfillment method (i.e for In store, Ship to address, Ship to store, pick up at store and send sale). We now have new ui resources implemented to give this flexibility and control to the retailers. Migrations scripts are provided so that existing customer and their users are unaffected. This feature is not configuration enabled and is available by default for all users. Related: POS and Store Customer Engagement Resources Pickup Orders - Bypass Address Collection for Pickup We now offer a new configuration so that the user does not need to collect full customer name/address information when the fulfillment method is PICKUP. Related: POS Cart Configuration Support Canada Taxation We have improved the way we handle and represent taxes to be more flexible in contemplation of coming in accordance with some countries government policies. With this enhanced approach for certain countries like Canada, retailers can now define and map tax rates across different tax slabs i.e. federal and provinces and use this on customer receipts and electronic journals. These tax rate mapping are made applicable for online or local taxes. Related: Order Pricing - Tax Promotion On Price Markdown We have enhanced promotion engine to support applying promotions based out of base price when item prices are marked down.  Retailers will now have an ability to configure promotions based on configuration rules and templates to base the promotional deal on either the base price OR selling price of qualifying items.  The retailer must populate price-promo>itemPrice>basePrice field for item(s) to use this logic.  This price is not used for anything else in MAO POS - everywhere in the system the lookup 'sticker price' of the item and the price that is shown on UI and receipts is the selling price. Example - Item A Base Price = 100.00, Selling Price = 75.00 Deal 1 = buy Item A, get 20% off Base Price - Deal 1 WILL NOT apply because current Selling price 75.00 is already lower than 20% off 100.00. Deal 2 = buy Item A, get 30% off Base Price - Deal 2 WILL apply because 30% off 100.00 = 70.00 which is lower than 75.00 selling price The deal will show on UI and receipts as 75.00-5.00 (mathematically equivalent to 100-30.00).  As stated, the 100.00 base price is not shown. Related: Pricing and Promotional Events Process Pricing and Promotional Events Configuration Gift Card Activation in Cart A new configuration has been added to allow retailers to activate gift cards at the time they are entered in the Cart allowing for a more streamlined approach, gift card void prior to taking customer payments, and an enhanced error handling. Related: Gift Card Process Guide Back-office Transactions EJ Localization Labels for both the EJ search screen and results lists are now localizable.  Dynamic labels which are sent from Order will not be localizable. This feature is not configuration enabled and is available by default for all users. EJ Receipt Print Mod Type Receipt printing/emailing, along with reprint/re-email are now mod types which can be displayed in the Electronic Journal.  The data included is the type of receipt, email address (if applicable), and print count. Note: To enable this feature, seed data must be copied and EJ mod type mapping should be added. Payment Type Configuration for Back-office Operation Prior to this release the Reconciliation screen, Bank Deposit screen and some of the BO reports (Tender Summary and Store Summary Report) always display three tender types i.e. Cash, Traveler's Check and Personal Check. If the retailers are not using any of these payment instruments they did not have the option to remove them from the display. Now the retailers have the ability to configure the display of Traveler's Check and Personal Check for the mentioned screens. They can disable both or either of them from displaying at these screens and reports. Cash tender type will always be displayed and cannot be configured. Related: Tender Type for BO Operations - Process Tender Type for BO Operations - Config Store Common Store App recovery from Termination We have addressed some occasions were iOS is killing store application running in background due to less RAM constraints. This will help retailers serve the customer uninterrupted while switching to other apps. Store users will now be recovered from unusual application log out, and based on user configurations, certain open transactions will be recovered to current state. Related: Store Application Recovery Process Store Inventory & Fulfillment (SIF) Store Order Fulfillment Same Day Delivery Stores can now fulfill orders which will be shipped by same day delivery providers who will transport the items to the customer's address. These orders are accepted into Order Management as shipment orders whose shipping method is configured as a same day delivery provider. Once released to the store, they are processed by store associates using the pickup order flow since from a store operations standpoint they are similar to customer pickup orders. When a same day order is released to the store, a new push notification notifies associates that the order is ready for picking. Once the order is picked, SIF notifies the provider that the order is ready for driver pickup and requests a tracking number from the provider. A delivery slip, which is similar to the pickup slip but also contains the tracking number and shipping address, is printed as well as an optional shipping label. Once the driver arrives at the store, store associates process the pickup using the existing confirm pickup or curbside processes. The driver provides the customer's information for pickup verification. Once the pickup is complete, the order is updated to fulfilled. Additional order tracking can be achieved through APIs/UIs provided by the provider using the assigned tracking number. This feature is controlled by configuration. Integration with same day delivery providers is required. As part of this integration, providers can optionally notify SIF that their driver is on the way and has arrived at the store. Related: Same Day Delivery Same Day Delivery Configuration Late Order Cancellation Refer to Later Order Cancellation in the Order Management section of Release Notes. Pickup Orders - Require Staging Location For retailers who are using the Staging UI, associates must assign at least one staging location in order to complete the staging operation. This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Staging Process Curbside Pickups - "On the Way" Distance Refer to Curbside Pickups in the Order Management section of Release Notes. Shipment Orders - FedEx SmartPost Ancillary Endorsement for Logistyx For retailers who are shipping FedEx SmartPost using the Logistyx integration, it is now possible to send ancillary endorsement information as part of the ship request. Ancillary endorsements are used for services such as address correction, carrier leave, change service, forwarding service, or return service. This attribute has been added as part of the carrier integration. Extension work is required to populate the value. Left-Hand Navigation Panel The left-hand navigation panel that is shown on the tablet form factor of several of the Store Fulfillment options will be removed as part of the 21.4 release. To prepare for this change, associates should be directed to use the menu links to access these options if not already doing so. Store Inventory Management Cycle Count - Item level review Retailers whose associates serve as both counters and reviewers can conduct count reviews for an item immediately after the count is completed. This enables the associates to identify and correct problem counts while they are located with the item, rather than traveling back through the store again once the count is complete. This feature is controlled by configuration. Related: Cycle Count Process Cycle Count Configuration Cycle Count - Remaining Counts Quantity Pop-up Cancel Button Change If the user selects an item to count using the quantity pop-up from the Remaining Counts UI and then decides to leave the screen before counting any units, the count for the item is reset to null so that the item remains listed on the Remaining Counts UI. This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Cycle Count Process Store-Initiated Transfers - Limit Maximum Quantity A maximum value can be configured to limit the number of units that a store associate can create on a store-initiated transfer. The limit applies to each item on the transfer. Related: Store-Initiated Transfers Process Store-Initiated Transfers Configuration Store-Initiated Transfers - Auto-select Carrier and Service Level If the retailer has defined only one carrier and/or service level, the Store-Initiated Transfers UI will auto-select these values on the UI. This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Store-Initiated Transfers Process