# Release 21.4

**Permalink:** release-notes-21.4
**Path:** Home/Release Notes/Manhattan Active® Omni/2021/Release 21.4
**Content Length:** 47,044 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:52:36.302616

---

Home››Release Notes››Manhattan Active® Omni››2021 ››Release 21.4 Manhattan Active® Omni Release Notes 21.4 Release Date: 10.1.2021 Order ManagementShip It Instead - Save the Sale: BOPIS to Ship to Home ConversionShip It Instead of Digital Self-ServiceShip it Instead of Store FulfillmentManhattan Active Warehouse Management IntegrationContact CenterResend EmailsEnterprise InventoryInteractive Inventory - Capacity Utilization Updates in CachePromise/Delivery Dates - Using Capacity UtilizationDelivery Date Performance DashboardDigital Self-ServiceReturn Received EmailUI ExtensibilityOrder FulfillmentOut for Delivery NotificationsOrder SellingCurrency Rounding: Japanese YenShipment Delay Notifications (FTC Compliance)Customizing the Order List and Order Line List UIsPoint of Sale (POS)POS Order SellingShip to Address and Pickup: Allow Editing of Shipping info in Cart for Guest CheckoutPrice Override: Include Item Details on Price Override pop-upReturns: Return Reason and Disposition Codes, and Error ConsolidationReturns: Returns Process NavigationReturns/Postvoid: Allow Limited Post void of Refund TransactionsBOPIS-Sell More Promotion LogicGlobal Search - Customer SearchAdvanced Customer SearchCustomer Search Carry ForwardCustomer Email Data - Configurable suggested email domainsBackoffice TransactionsSuggested Bank Deposit ValueStore Inventory & Fulfillment (SIF)Store Order FulfillmentFulfillment ScorecardShip It InsteadIn-App Notification Auto-Dismiss TimeLeft-Hand Navigation PanelFind Inventory at Nearby Stores - Additional AttributesSuppress Same Day Delivery Carriers from Update PackageStore Inventory ManagementCycle Count - Scan Item from Remaining Counts UIInventory Adjustments - Require CommentsStore-Initiated Transfers - Package-Level EventStore CommonDevice InformationConfigurable Store DetailLocalization of Login screenManhattan ProActiveAPI RouterMA App ShellAPI Documentation Improvements Order Management Ship It Instead - Save the Sale: BOPIS to Ship to Home Conversion Customers can now convert their buy-online pick-up in store (BOPIS) items to ship to them instead. This feature saves sales for retailers by reducing cancellations due to customer no-shows while also empowering customers with yet another option in Digital Self-Service. For example, if a customer receives the pickup reminder email but is unable to pick up the items, they can click the 'Ship It Instead' link. In Digital Self-Service, the customer can use their saved address or input a new address. The store is informed about the conversion, and the store associate ships the items to the customer's newly-input address. Ship It Instead of Digital Self-Service See DSS Initiated Ship-It Instead video Customers can access the Digital Self-Service 'Ship It Instead' page from a pickup reminder email, text, or link from e-commerce. If the fulfillment is eligible for conversion, the customer can choose to ship the order instead. Upon navigating to the link provided, the customer is prompted to enter their shipping address. Registered customers can use their saved shipping address. For newly-entered addresses, Google Autocomplete can optionally be enabled to provide seamless auto-complete capabilities. The address is also verified through the address verification service (AVS) configured in the contact center. Taxes and shipping and handling charges can be recalculated based on the new ship-to address. However, any additional taxes and charges must be absorbed by the retailer, as no additional payment is captured from the customer. A confirmation email or text message is sent to the customer once the conversion is complete. Related: Ship It Instead - BOPIS to Ship to Home Conversion Transactional Emails Transactional Texts Ship it Instead of Store Fulfillment Store Fulfillment converts the fulfillment from pickup to ship to address. A "New pickup order to ship" notification is displayed to notify store associates that a pickup order has been converted and should be packed. The Packing UI provides a visual indication that the order has been converted, which notifies the store associate to retrieve the order from the pickup area for packing. The ship for these converted fulfillments is defined via configuration. Note: This feature is controlled by configuration. Related: DSS-Initiated Ship It Instead DSS-Initiated Ship It Instead Configuration Manhattan Active Warehouse Management Integration Manhattan Active Warehouse Management (WM) and Manhattan Active® Omni are now integrated out of the box for the following flows: Inventory Management Inventory sync Inventory updates and adjustments Recept and verification of item-level ASNs Order Management Release and fulfillment of ship to address items Short and cancelations from WM Select status updates from WM Note: Features not included in this list are not yet supported. Translation between the two system formats is managed via direct component-to-component integration. Related: Warehouse Management Integration Contact Center Resend Emails CSRs can now resend emails to customers directly from the contact center application. For example, if a customer calls and says they did not receive their shipment confirmation email, a CSR can resend it. The CSR can optionally input a new email address if the customer's email address was incorrect. Transactional emails must be imported into Active Omni to use this resend feature. When a CSR resends an email, the outbound JSON or HTML is published to a queue. A third party email provider should pick up these messages and deliver the email to the customer. Related: Resend Emails In Contact Center Enterprise Inventory Interactive Inventory - Capacity Utilization Updates in Cache Capacity utilization is now managed in the availability cache. This location capacity utilization cache becomes the source of truth for actual capacity utilization for any location not considered "high utilization". For high utilization locations, capacity management will remain as-is and the cache is not used. Note: This feature is automatically enabled if a reservation from the cache is turned on in the Interactive Inventory Parameters. It will also be automatically enabled if the Delivery Dates interactive inventory API is used. Related: Availability Cache Data Structures Reservations from Cache High Utilization Capacity Promise/Delivery Dates - Using Capacity Utilization In addition to Location Proximity, Handling Cost, and Selling Price Differential, Capacity Utilization has been added as an optimization factor that can be used when calling the cart and product ATP calls to display the earliest delivery dates on the product details page, view cart, and checkout pages. This allows retailers to promise dates based on distressed inventory. Related: Significance of Capacity Utilization in Evaluating the Best Location Optimization cache - New Capacity Utilization Percentage Cache Compute Delivery Dates - Process Flow Interactive Inventory Delivery Date Performance Dashboard A new Delivery Date Performance dashboard displays metrics to track whether shipments are delivered based on the original promised date. This is done by comparing the actual delivery date of a shipment with the calculated delivery date during allocation. The dashboard displays: Percentage of shipments delivered on time, early, or late by location type and shipping method Trend of late shipments by location type and shipping method Average lead time by shipping method Note: The dashboard displays details if the delivery tracking flag is enabled in order configuration. Related: How to enable Delivery Tracking Delivery Date Performance Dashboard Digital Self-Service Return Received Email Customers can now receive email notifications when returned items are received and verified at the return center. Related: Transactional Emails UI Extensibility Extension points have been added for the Create Return UI as well as the Cancellation Preview and Confirmation UIs. Developer mode is also enabled for these UIs so that users can easily view and export extension points. Create Return UI: Hide the "Return In Store" section Cancellation UI: Static text labels Related: UI Theming and Customization Order Fulfillment Out for Delivery Notifications Text and email notifications can now be sent when a package is out for delivery. Delivery tracking is supported via out of the box integration with UPS, FedEx, and USPS. Out for delivery is not a status track on the order line. Related: Delivery Tracking Order Selling Currency Rounding: Japanese Yen Manhattan Active® Omni can now support currencies with different rounding requirements. For example, US Dollars (USD) and Euros (EUR) use two decimal spaces, the Bahrain Dinar (BHD) uses 3 decimal spaces, and Japanese Yen (JPY) and Chilean Pesos (CLP) do not use decimal values. To support payment and financials in such currencies, money amounts need to be rounded to the correct denomination. For example, Yen and Chilean Peso amounts must be rounded to the nearest whole number. Note: Manhattan Active® Omni supports currency rounding in item pricing, charges, discounts, taxes, and invoicing for customer and return orders. Rounding is supported only by the Japanese Yen (JPY) currency. Related: Currency Rounding Shipment Delay Notifications (FTC Compliance) Manhattan Active® Omni now provides monitoring and notifications of shipment delays in accordance with Federal Trade Commission (FTC) guidelines. When an item does not meet the promised delivery date, Active Omni can do the following: If the item is processed at the fulfillment center and if it is within 30 days, send a notification to the customer regarding the delay in shipment via email. If the item cannot be fulfilled from any other location within 30 days, then you can cancel the line and send a notification to the customer regarding the cancellation. If the line is already being released to the fulfillment center, and if the DC/store shortens the line after 30 days, then you can cancel the line and send a notification to the customer regarding the cancellation. The ’30 days’ time period is configurable. With this feature, outbound emails for system-initiated cancellations are also supported. Related: Ship It Instead - BOPIS to Ship to Home Conversion Federal Trade Commission (FTC) Compliance Transactional Emails Short Events Customizing the Order List and Order Line List UIs In the Order List and Order Line List UIs, base or custom columns can now be hyperlinked to launch a pop-up or new tab. Additionally, custom buttons can be enabled based on user grants. Point of Sale (POS) POS Order Selling Ship to Address and Pickup: Allow Editing of Shipping info in Cart for Guest Checkout Store users will now be allowed to edit customer info, address or shipping info on ship to address lines. And will be allowed to edit store location or customer information for pickup at store and ship to store lines. Related: Process Guide - Ship to Guest Address Process Guide - Pickup by Guest Price Override: Include Item Details on Price Override pop-up The price override popup will now include additional item details along with unit price such as Item Id, description, image, color and quantity to provide more information on the item's price's being overridden. Note: This feature is not configuration enabled and is available by default for all users.BOPIS flow enhancement The BOPIS flow is now enhanced to allow the user to navigate back and forth from the Cart screen to the Order details screen in the Confirm Pick up flow. The retailer can select the Sell More option while confirming the pick-up and adding additional line items to the pick-up order. The application provides the ability to navigate back to Order Details. However, it displays a pop up to notify the user that the additional added items will be lost. While in the BOPIS – Sell More flow, the customer is directly populated from the BOPIS order to the Cart screen. Users cannot change the customer in BOPIS-Sell More flow. Also, users are not allowed to create any return orders in the BOPIS-Sell More flow. The application restricts users from creating a return order, whether by selecting RETURNS from the menu or smart scanning an ORDERID or from PURCHASE HISTORY or even via the SLIDE menu. Note: These enhancements are done from the Base level and do not require any configurations. Returns: Return Reason and Disposition Codes, and Error Consolidation Retailers can now configure default return reason and disposition codes, as well as a default selection on the Error Consolidation popup.  Users will still be able to manually select another option if needed. Related: POS Configuration Guide Returns: Returns Process Navigation The Cart screen is enhanced to now display the headers in a sticky header format when a return order is added. As and when the return orders are added to the cart, the individual headers for Purchase and Returns dock at the top of the order displaying the total amount and item count against each order type. Also, there is a More icon added on the right of the Cart screen to provide the user with a visual cue to understand there are multiple items added. When the user scrolls down, the More icon is displayed at the lower right end. Once the user reaches the end of the Y axis, the icon displays in the top right corner. The icon itself is not clickable. It is for informational purposes. Note: There is no configuration required for this change. Returns/Postvoid: Allow Limited Post void of Refund Transactions Post void of refund transaction is now supported, with limits, and will be based on payCaptureConfig>Detail>Permit Postvoid on Refund configuration, which is enabled/disabled at each payment type. Note: Simply enabling this flag does not guarantee that a refund via a given payment type can be successfully Post-Voided, as this depends on the particular support in each retailer for cancelling/reversing/or follow-on charge for that payment type, based on the specific integration of a Gateway/Provider. PostVoid of a split tender refund is not supported regardless of the payment capture configuration. Related: Process guide Config guide Receipt sample BOPIS-Sell More Promotion Logic The promotion engine is enhanced to handle the order and line level dates and calculate the promotions efficiently for the pick-up at store orders with an additional sales line on them. Earlier, the application used to send the current creation date and ignore the Pick Up order date, which at times resulted in knocking off an already applied deal because the deal may have already expired. With this enhancement, the promotion engine receives the individual creation dates for different order types and calculates the best deal existing within those date ranges. It also ensures that any deal already applied to the pick-up order is not lost while picking it up at a later date when the deal has probably expired, unless there is any other better deal available. Note:This change is at the base and does not require any configuration to apply. Related: Process Guide Global Search - Customer Search Advanced Customer Search Retailers can now configure the customer search to search in discrete fields.  From base, we allow the first name, the last name, an email and a  phone number.  Additional fields can be configured as needed. Additionally, the retailer can set an additional configuration to make this the default search for the UI. Customer Search Carry Forward When a user searches for a customer within the global search, if no results are found, the user can choose to add a new customer.  With this new feature, the initially entered search criteria will be carried forward into the new customer form.  This functionality will ensure that a user does not enter a customer's information twice. Related: Global Search Customer Email Data - Configurable suggested email domains Retailers can now configure the suggested email domains (ex. "@gmail.com") which are shown when a user starts to enter email address data. Related: POS Cart Configuration Backoffice Transactions Suggested Bank Deposit Value Backoffice Bank deposit screen will now show the suggested cash amount that is available to be deposited based on new business flags. Related: Process guide Config guide Store Inventory & Fulfillment (SIF) Store Order Fulfillment Fulfillment Scorecard See Fulfillment Scorecard video The Fulfillment Scorecard UI gives stores the ability to view their picking and packing rates of customer orders for the current day, providing visibility to how they are performing. The units picked and packed per hour are displayed for the store, as well as the total time spent picking/packing and total units picked/packed, which are used to calculate the rates. The store's metrics are calculated by summing up the pick/pack time and units picked/packed by each associate in the store for the day. The total pick/pack time for an associate is calculated based on when they start and finish a pick or pack activity. Any pause/resume times are deducted from the total. Based on permissions, the same metrics can be viewed for each individual associate as well as the number of units they have rejected. The highest and lowest performing associates can also be highlighted based on permission. The My Performance Scorecard UI gives a store associate the ability to see their individual picking and packing performance for the day. Note: This functionality is enabled based on configuration, and both menus are controlled by permissions. Related: Fulfillment Scorecard Fulfillment Scorecard Configuration Ship It Instead Refer to the Order Management In-App Notification Auto-Dismiss Time Retailers can now configure how long a non-persistent in-app notification (i.e., one which does not include the 'Dismiss' button) should display on associates' screens before it is auto-dismissed. By default, the previously existing behavior of 6 seconds is used unless another value is specifically defined. Related: Push Notifications Left-Hand Navigation Panel As previously announced in the 21.3 release notes, the left-hand navigation panel that is shown on the tablet form factor of several of the Store Fulfillment options has been removed. Going forward, associates should access these options directly from the menu. Note: This feature is automatically enabled. Find Inventory at Nearby Stores - Additional Attributes For customers that do not leverage Google Map API's, additional location attributes including city, state, zip code and phone number are now displayed when an associate looks for inventory at nearby stores. This feature is automatically enabled. Related: View Store Inventory Process Suppress Same Day Delivery Carriers from Update Package Associates are now able to view and select only non-same-day delivery carriers from the Update Package UI in the Store application. This applies to all scenarios from which the Update Package UI can be reached, including customer shipments, pullbacks/transfers, store-initiated transfers and reprint. Note: This feature is automatically enabled. Related: Shipping Process Store Inventory Management Cycle Count - Scan Item from Remaining Counts UI Associates can now scan an item from the Remaining Counts UI, streamlining the actions needed to count an item from the remaining counts screen. Note: This feature is automatically enabled. Related: Cycle Count Process Inventory Adjustments - Require Comments When performing an inventory adjustment, associates can now be required to enter a comment to capture additional information about the adjustment which is needed by other systems.Configuration on the inventory adjustment type defines whether comments are required and is disabled by default. Related: Adjust Store Inventory Process Adjust Store Inventory Configuration Store-Initiated Transfers - Package-Level Event When a Store-Initiated Transfer package is shipped, a package level event can now generate a fulfillment outbound message to provide earlier notice to other systems for multiple package fulfillments. This is controlled by configuration, and is disabled by default. Related: Store-Initiated Transfers Process Store-Initiated Transfers Configuration Store Common Device Information Store Operations or IT personnel can now view all the information regarding their devices running the Active Store application in the UI. Information about the devices( Platform, OS version, Model) , application version (Base and custom) along with the user and location are updated as store associates login to the store application. This can be used to drive application upgrades or for troubleshooting purposes. Related: Device Information Configurable Store Detail Instead of LocationId, you can configure the application to display Location Name or Display Id on the Home screen and Manager Dashboard screen. This will be useful if a retailer has the same store number across multiple countries/brands. This feature is controlled by configuration. The default value of this configuration is LocationId. Related: Store Selection Process Manager Dashboard Configuration Localization of Login screen The login screen of Manhattan Active Omni application can be configured to display literal terms in other languages. The language is determined by the language/region settings of the device used (or language preference in browsers).  The starter pack is not available out-of-box and language literals should be created for the locale as needed by projects using APIs. Related: Translation Guide Login Page Customization Manhattan ProActive The 21.4 release of Manhattan Active Omni includes enhancements to the ProActive extensibility tool which improves UI extensibility capabilities. In this release, we have added a new Developer Artifacts section which provides users with artifacts and technical configuration information to further aid with extensibility. The following features are accessible through the new developer artifacts section. API Router The API Router functionality allows the user to route UI requests to a target URL using a custom API. The user can configure custom routes via the API Router option found in the Extension Pack details. In the extension pack, select the API Router option, then select a façade and add your custom entry for one or more APIs as desired. An option called “Specify APIs” is added under the Developer Artifacts section of ProActive. Accessing this section will allow you to select a façade and view all of the APIs that have been overridden via extensions. MA App Shell The MA App Shell functionality allows customers to build the store application binaries with their own customizations for iOS, Android and Windows. ProActive provides usage guides with the steps needed to download the application artifacts for the custom application development. After the application has been customized, you can configure the CDN path in the ProActive Extension to enable the application version to run in browsers. API Documentation Improvements In this release of ProActive, the following API Documentation improvements are added: Detailed documentation for a subset of frequently used APIs. The frequently used APIs can be easily accessed through the API documentation section of ProActive where available. Use case-based example payloads for frequently used APIs available in ProActive. This convenience feature lets you understand the specific payload required by the API for the use case. Related: Manhattan ProActive Overview