# Release Notes 23.1

**Permalink:** release-notes-2-2
**Content Length:** 9,470 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:47:45.259905

---

Home&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Release Notes&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;2023 ››Release Notes 23.1 Manhattan Active&reg; Allocation Release Notes 23.1 &nbsp; KEY FEATURES:Prioritize Allocation to Higher Margin StoresNeed AdjustmentsAllocation with&nbsp;Aggregate Plan&nbsp;New Configuration in Products ScreenNew Field Added to Allocation Method&nbsp;Screen The 23.1 release of Manhattan Active Allocation is focused on ensuring Manhattan&rsquo;s allocation solution is even simpler to use while achieving maximum returns on inventory.&nbsp;&nbsp; The newest additions included in the 23.1 release of Manhattan Active Allocation improve the overall usability of several core allocation functions as well as simplify various configuration tasks. Some of the most significant features are summarized below. KEY FEATURES: &nbsp; Prioritize Allocation to Higher Margin Stores This enhancement prioritizes the allocation of a product to stores that sell it for a higher margin. This logic can be beneficial in a limited supply situation. Location priority schedule allows a user to prioritize the allocation of a product by location priority values before the Allocation logic goes into the next step of prioritization by other criteria such as grade, minimum, and need. When Location Priority Schedule is configured and &#39;Prioritize Higher Margin Locations&#39; is selected from Allocation Strategy UI, the system will try to first allocate the product to stores that sell it for a higher margin. The user can specify &#39;Ascending&#39; or &#39;Descending&#39; in the &#39;locationPrioritySortOrder&#39; configuration. The default value is &quot;Ascending&quot;, which means locations with the lower priority values are allocated first. If the sort order is configured as descending, then the higher priority values are allocated first. The priority value in Location Priority Schedule stores a numerical value that contributes to the product overall margin such as a markdown percentage or a markup percentage. The type of information that is stored in the priority value and the sort order must be decided up front for the whole organization: Sort ascending for the lowest markdown to be interpreted as the highest margin (e.g., 10% markdown is a higher margin than 20% markdown) Sort descending for the highest markup to be interpreted as the highest margin (e.g., 20% markup is a higher margin than 10% markup). If desired, the user can also specify a global threshold configuration to stop allocating a product to certain locations when the threshold is exceeded. For ascending sorting order, the threshold is a maximum threshold. For descending order, this threshold is a minimum threshold. For instance, if the sort order is ascending with a markdown threshold of 50%, and the location has a markdown% that is more than or equal to 50%, then do not allocate this product to that location. On the other hand, if the sort order is descending with a markup threshold of 50%, and the location has a markup% that is less than or equal to 50%, then do not allocate this product to that location.&nbsp; This functionality replaces the previous functionality where the allocation engine stops allocating a product to any location with a markdown (&gt; 0%). &nbsp; Note - This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Location Priority Schedule Allocation Strategy &nbsp; Need Adjustments Need adjustments is a new feature that can be used to increase or decrease the system-calculated need when the expected demand change is not already represented in the plan, forecast, or sales which is used in the Method. An increase in demand due to a promotion is an example of when Need Adjustments may be used to increase the need. Another example is wanting to push stock to stores towards end of season. Multiple or overlapping adjustments for the same product location are allowed as there may be multiple events driving changes in demand at the same time. Adjustments for the same week are summed up and applied to the system&#39;s calculated needs. &nbsp; Note - This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Need Adjustments &nbsp; Allocation with&nbsp;Aggregate Plan&nbsp; This feature gives the ability to set&nbsp;up an aggregate&nbsp;plan for a product at up to 3 different levels of location hierarchy. The system will track&nbsp;Key Performance Indicators -&nbsp;Need, Allocation Quantity, Total Quantity Released up to date, and Total Sales at the same level.&nbsp; Example of location hierarchy:&nbsp;Level 1 - Channel, Level 2 - Region, and Level 3 - District.&nbsp; Aggregate plan can be used as one of the criteria in Auto Submit-Approval policy to manage&nbsp;how inventory is allocated across different location hierarchies. This feature is useful for setting up controls while sharing&nbsp;a single pool of inventory in an Omni channel environment.&nbsp; &nbsp; Note - This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Aggregate Plan Metric Auto Submit-Approval Policies &nbsp; New Configuration in Products Screen A new &#39;Active&#39; (flag) option is added to the Product screen. This helps the&nbsp;user to interface with the active product. Also, they can&nbsp;create or update and filter the product with this flag.&nbsp; The&nbsp;default value is &#39;Yes&#39;. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Note - This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release.&nbsp;&nbsp; Related: Products &nbsp; New Field Added to Allocation Method&nbsp;Screen &nbsp;The new field &#39;How many weeks of supply does this method represent?&#39;&nbsp;is added to the &#39;On the&nbsp;Define weeks of supply for this method&#39;&nbsp;page.&nbsp;This value is used to determine the average weekly need. Additionally, Need Adjustments within the specified number of weeks in the future are applied to the need. If the method represents 2 weeks, need adjustments for the current week and the next week will be applied. &nbsp; Note - This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Allocation Method &nbsp;