# Release 21.3

**Permalink:** release-21.3
**Content Length:** 4,970 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:47:59.231714

---

Home&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Release Notes&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;2021 ››Release 21.3 Manhattan Active&reg; Allocation Release Notes 21.3 &nbsp; Support for ForecastingForecast Analysis UIEnhanced Workflow in Method Configuration UISize Profile Auto-Assignment for New Store Locations Manhattan Active&reg; Allocation enables you to effectively distribute merchandise inventory to the stores by allowing&nbsp;flexibility to define the store needs as per your&nbsp;business requirements. The 21.3&nbsp;release of Manhattan Active Allocation delivers support for forecasting and enhanced method configuration workflow. &nbsp; Support for Forecasting The forecast is an essential input variable for allocating inventory. Users will be able to create forecast policies for product and location categories and specify the parameters for forecasting. Product and location hierarchy levels, attributes, and their priority sequence can be specified to find model product locations. These model product locations can then be used to calculate forecasts for short-lifecycle products. Users can set parameters for identifying the model product locations and perform&nbsp;activities&nbsp;such as&nbsp;forecast initialization, generating model demand, and more. &nbsp; Forecast Analysis UI The forecast Analysis UI page has been added to provide forecast visibility on&nbsp;the lifecycle of a style or product. A user can view the current lifecycle forecast, remaining forecast, starting forecast confidence, actual sales comparison, and accuracy metrics such as&nbsp;forecast accuracy and bias. A forecast can be compared to other metrics such as forecast and sales by fulfillment type and merchandise plans. Additional charts are provided to support analysis of forecasting metrics by geography, grade, climate, and other&nbsp;location filter options. Forecast Analysis&nbsp;can be accessed from the Allocation Maintenance page. &nbsp; Enhanced Workflow in Method Configuration UI Workflow in method configuration now&nbsp;allows users to easily select the input type for computing the needed variables in a guided manner. Forecast has been&nbsp;added as an additional input type apart from plan and metric for method configuration. &nbsp; Size Profile Auto-Assignment for New Store Locations Size Profiling has been enhanced with a machine learning-based method that automatically assigns newly-opened store locations to store clusters. This considerably improves the accuracy of the allocations&nbsp;down to the size level for locations that have little or no actual demand history. New stores are assigned to a cluster based on up to 15 distinct attributes, such as store size, demographics, median income, daily foot traffic, and so on. New stores use cluster profiles until the store has&nbsp;sufficient selling history to generate its own size profile.