# Manhattan Active® Omni Release Notes 24.1

**Permalink:** release-24.1
**Path:** Home/Release Notes/Manhattan Active® Omni/2024/Manhattan Active® Omni Release Notes 24.1
**Content Length:** 51,937 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:51:50.230808

---

Home››Release Notes››Manhattan Active® Omni››2024 ››Manhattan Active® Omni Release Notes 24.1 Manhattan Active® Omni Release Notes 24.1 Release Date: 1/5/2024 Order ManagementEnterprise InventoryAbility to Sort and Publish Inventory Based on Inventory AttributesUse Authorized Segments for Priority Segmentation Templates Enhanced Segmentation Configuration RulesDeveloper DocumentationOrder SellingEditable e-Invoice FieldsShip it Instead: Capture Payment for Shipping and Handling (S&H) and Perform Fraud CheckAdyen Integration EnhancementsReserve Online Pickup In StoreOrder Subscription Dashboard ImprovementsOrder FulfillmentAbility to Allocate to a Preferred Location within a Location GroupStrategy Name in Promising APIsDigital Self-ServiceProduct RecommendationsCreate Returns & Exchanges: UI ImprovementsShip it Instead: Capture Payment for S&H and Perform Fraud CheckContact CenterProduct RecommendationsQuote Order SupportContact Center Usability EnhancementsCustomer Service and Customer Engagement - Enhanced Permission ControlCustomer EngagementCSR Manager Dashboard EnhancementsCustomer Engagement Usability EnhancementsPoint of SalePOS Order SellingEdit Capability for Value Added Services Validate Customer during ActivationGrouping Cart Item by Fulfillment GroupsTill Audit (Drawer Count)Price CheckAbility to Edit Order QuotesPOS Fiscalization and GlobalizationItaly FiscalizationStore Customer EngagementPOS Order and Line Level Notes - Enhanced Permission ControlPOS Metrics and App ReportsConversion MetricReserve Online Pickup in StoreStore Inventory & Fulfillment (SIF)Store Order FulfillmentReserve Online Pickup in StoreFedEx Track ServiceStore Inventory ManagementStore-Initiated Cycle CountHandheld RFID - Store ReplenishmentStore CommonIvory ThemeDevice & OS SupportMiscellaneous ChangesStore - Additional Resource Protected ActionsStore - Firebase APIStore - Upgraded App Order Management Enterprise Inventory Ability to Sort and Publish Inventory Based on Inventory Attributes Manhattan Active® Omni now supports the sorting of inventory records based on Inventory Attributes 1-5 in ascending or descending order. With this release, retailers can now allocate inventory to the earliest expiration date (if the expiration date is maintained in an Inventory Attribute), thereby supporting FIFO allocation. Additionally, the Publish Release can now be enhanced to include the inventory attributes on the release. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Sort Order By ETA/Inventory Attributes Sort Order By ETA/Inventory Attributes Configuration Supply Attributes in Release Outbound Template Supply Attributes in Release Outbound Template Configuration Use Authorized Segments for Priority Segmentation Templates Prior to this release, when using priority based segmentation rules, inventory added via positive adjustments was always segmented in the highest priority segment in the rule. This was true even if that item was not supposed to be part of the segment in the first place (for example: a retail-only item being segmented into an e-commerce segment). With this release, the concept of "authorized segment" is introduced for an item in a location. It is now possible to maintain a list of segments an item can be segmented into. This list of authorized segments is updated automatically every time the planning system creates segmented future inventory records. If the information is maintained in a master data system, it is also possible to directly bridge the authorized segment list for each item/location. Priority segmentation templates have been enhanced to limit the segments used during inventory rise to authorized segments only. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Segmentation of Future Supply Configure Authorized Segments in Priority Template Enhanced Segmentation Configuration Rules Segmentation rules now support additional filters using item attributes. This feature helps in configuring the segmentation rules for retailers with item-based rules. Note: This feature is automatically available to all customers by default. Related: Configure filters for segmentation rules Developer Documentation A tutorial page has been updated to reserve inventory during checkout and can be accessed at https://developer.manh.com. Order Selling Editable e-Invoice Fields Manhattan Active® Omni supports the editing of specific eInvoice/eAdjustment fields in cases where the government rejects the eInvoice due to invalid data. With this release, TaxAmount, TaxCode, and TaxDate field values can be modified and republished. These updates can be made to the overridden fields provided on the eInvoice. The republished eInvoice will contain effective fields with overridden values if they were updated. Note: It is recommended to update mappings to consider effective fields before sending the eInvoice to the government. Related: Editing eInvoice and eAdjustment Ship it Instead: Capture Payment for Shipping and Handling (S&H) and Perform Fraud Check Manhattan Active® Omni now supports calculating shipping charges and collecting payment from end customers for customer-initiated Ship It Instead conversions. Also, with this feature, Retailers can configure to call external fraud through extension point, capture S&H and any increased taxes from the customer. Retailers can configure to call external fraud through extension point, do not charge S&H recalculate taxes but write off any increase automatically. Limit BOPIS to shipment conversions based on dollar amount (for example, order lines worth < $5 cannot be converted) or on any other custom criteria by implementing extension point. Shipping restrictions can be enforced for customer initiated Ship It Instead conversions by enabling 'Evaluate Shipping Restriction' service. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Customer Initiated Ship It Instead - S&H Charge Calculation Customer Initiated Ship It Instead - S&H Charge Calculation Configuration Customer Initiated Ship It Instead - Fraud Verification Adyen Integration Enhancements As part of the out of box integration with Adyen for payment processing, the following new functionalities have been added: Extend the expiration date of an existing authorization transaction Manage Adyen account credentials at the organization and location level Improved Adyen account credential management process Note: Credential management is available by default when using the base Adyen payment integration. Authorization extension is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Adyen Integration Enhancements - Authorization Extension Adyen Integration Enhancements - Credential Management Reserve Online Pickup In Store Reserve Online Pickup in Store (ROPIS) orders can now be processed in stores. For customers using Manhattan Active Point of Sale, during pickup store associates are directed to the Order Summary UI to collect payment. External POS integrations are also supported. Note: For external POS implementations, this feature is automatically available as part of the release and is controlled by permissions. For Manhattan Active POS, the functionality is controlled by configuration which is disabled by default and controlled by permissions. Related: Reserve Online Pickup in Store Orders Reserve Online Pickup in Store Orders Configuration Confirm Pickups Contact Customer Store Fulfillment UI Resources POS Resources Order Subscription Dashboard Improvements A user interface has been provided to enable Manhattan Active® Omni users to configure annual subscription levels and the expected monthly order counts for the Order Subscription Dashboard. The dashboard has been enhanced to provide a single view into the customer's current and planned order counts across Order Management System(OMS) and Point of Sale(POS). Note: The new UI will be available by default for the new customers. For existing customers, the new UI will be rolled out by R&D team working with services team in the upcoming quarters. Related: Order Subscription Order Subscription Configuration Order Fulfillment Ability to Allocate to a Preferred Location within a Location Group For B2B retailers that directly deliver to their customers, to simplify delivery planning, they can opt to fulfill orders for each destination from a designated preferred location within the region. This approach aids in more effective planning and cost efficiency. In cases where the preferred locations lack inventory, orders can be directly allocated to vendors who fulfill the preferred location. These orders are subsequently merged at the preferred location before being delivered to customers. The ranking of these preferred locations can be established within a location group. In situations where an order is initially allocated to a suboptimal location, Manhattan Active® Omni is enhanced to dynamically reallocate the order to a more optimal location within the same location group. This reallocation occurs when there is a change in demand or supply within the specified location group. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Continuous Allocation Within Location Group Continuous Allocation Within Location Group Configuration Strategy Name in Promising APIs Two new attributes are introduced to the Promising Requests: Cart ATP, and Product ATP APIs used to specify a Promising Strategy: StrategyName can be populated with PromisingConfigName StrategyId can be populated with PromisingConfigId The existing PromisingConfigName attribute is still supported for existing implementations. Therefore, no mapping changes are required for customers using PromisingConfigName request attribute. Note: This feature is automatically available to all customers by default. Related: Immediate Allocation Overview Promising Srategy Configuration Digital Self-Service Product Recommendations This feature allows retailers to display product recommendations in Digital Self-Service via integration with a third party recommendation engine. Recommendations can be displayed on the Shipment Tracking, Return Tracking, and Create Return/Exchange pages. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Product Recommendations Configuration Create Returns & Exchanges: UI Improvements Key usability improvements have been made to the Digital Self-Service returns and exchange UIs. Changes focus on optimizing the experience for mobile users. For example, users can now select items by tapping the item tile instead of a small checkbox, making the touch-target larger for users on small mobile phone screens. No functionality has changed as a part of this enhancement. Note: This feature is controlled by a behavioral change configuration which is disabled by default. The enable-by-date for this feature is 5th June 2024 and allows users to enable improvements any date before this date. However, after this date, the new mobile-optimized Returns/Exchanges GUI will be the default. To support this feature, new labels and CSS styles will be added. Related: Create Return and Exchange With Optimized UI Improvements Configuration Ship it Instead: Capture Payment for S&H and Perform Fraud Check Retailers can now calculate S&H charges and taxes for pickup conversion and collect payment for the balance due via Pay by Link. The system can also perform fraud checks for Digital Self-Service pickup conversions. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Customer Initiated Ship It Instead Contact Center Product Recommendations This enhancement is designed to give contact center agents greater selling potential in their interactions with customers. A product recommendations panel is added at the bottom of item details on the Item Search page. When configured, a third party engine will return a list of recommended items, which will display the image of the item, item price, and item description for the agent to discuss with the customer. Note: Product Recommendations can optionally be enabled by a configuration. Related: Product Recommendations Configuration Quote Order Support Quote orders can now be edited in the Contact Center, like a regular customer order. The contact center agent may edit any field on the Order Edit UI, except for fields on the Payment Tab. Quote orders can be converted to a customer order and payments can be accepted if the contact center agent's role includes the required grant. Until payment is rendered, the order may be converted back to a quote order. Note: Quote order edits are controlled by existing order edit grants; converting quotes is controlled by a new grant. Related: Editing Quote Orders UI Resources Contact Center Usability Enhancements Several small enhancements to the Contact Center have been made to enhance the usability of the system. They are listed below. Order Notes Visibility : Viewing order notes has been changed to allow greater visibility into the notes. The overall popup size has increased, and the text boxes now are dynamically sized to display all the text inside without internal scroll in the text box. The newest notes will now display at the top of the list. Prior to this release, they were displayed at the bottom. Appeasement Count on Order Status: There is now an appeasement count displayed for both header and line level in order status page the same way promotions and coupons are counted. Header and Line level Appeasements: Two new reason types have been configured (LineAppeasement, HeaderAppeasement). When a new reason is configured with either of these, that new reason will only apply to its respective level, (Line or Header). Receipt Expected in Return Status: In RO/XO screens, there is now a field on each line which displays whether or not receipt is expected. Order Confirmation Popup: When an order is being created for an unregistered customer, there is a new popup which appears on order confirmation which shows the order Id so that the contact center agents can easily copy it to their clipboard. Appeasement Popup: Simple styling changes have been made to the appeasement popup to allow for better differentiation between sections. Note: This change is enabled by default for all customers. Customer Service and Customer Engagement - Enhanced Permission Control A new grant has been added to ensure Contact Center users do not see unnecessary UI elements for implementations not using the Customer Engagement module. Prior to this release, access to the Contact Center and Customer Engagement screens were controlled by a common grant. With this release, a new grant has been added to enable users to access Contact Center without Customer Engagement and optimize their UI experience. If you’re using the Contact Center but not Customer Engagement, the existing grant should be replaced with the new grant. If you’re using both the Contact Center and Customer Engagement modules, no change is required. Note: This change is enabled by default for all customers. Related: UI Resources Customer Engagement CSR Manager Dashboard Enhancements These enhancements are designed to empower managers with efficient navigation, improved multitasking, and a personalized user experience, ultimately contributing to enhanced productivity in managing cases and teams. Cases Assigned To Me: Navigate swiftly to the list of cases assigned to you by utilizing the "Cases Assigned To Me" quick link in the highlights section of the dashboard. Multiselect Teams: Previously, the dashboard only allowed the viewing of results for a single team. With the latest update, managers can now select multiple teams, enabling them to access and analyze results across teams. Default to My Team(s) on Page Load: Optimize your experience by configuring the system to default to your team(s) upon loading the page. Seamless Transition from Performance Board to Case List: Enhance your workflow continuity by providing a direct link from the performance board to the case list. This feature enables you to effortlessly transition from performance analysis to actionable items. Note: This feature is automatically available to all customers provided with the required grants. Related: Contact Center Manager Dashboard UI Resources Customer Engagement Usability Enhancements Several small enhancements to Customer Engagement have been made to enhance the usability of the system. They are listed below. Resolution Field Improvement: The 'Resolution' field in the interaction wrap up panel and case details popup has been enhanced to provide a much simpler look and feel. Last Modified by in Case Details: The 'Last modified by' is now displayed on the Case Details UI . Case List: Cases can now be searched by ‘Last modified date' or ‘Order Number' on the Case List UI. Cases: Customer phone number and email have been added to any customer search field in the Cases UI to enhance the visibility into customers when searching for customers. Note: This change is enabled by default for all customers. Point of Sale POS Order Selling Edit Capability for Value Added Services The Value Added Service popup on the Cart screen is now enhanced to allow the users to modify an applied VAS.  Earlier, the user did not have the option to edit the applied VAS.  Instead, they usually add fresh ones always and the existing ones used to get overridden.  Now the users can edit and add the VAS from the same popup on the Cart screen. Note: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: VAS in POS UI Resources Validate Customer during Activation A new option is available to perform extra validation when a customer is activated.  This will allow the retailer to introduce extra custom checking prior to associating the customer to a transaction.  For example, a custom check could confirm whether or not the customer is currently already activated in another order in process, if the retailer doesn't wish to allow customer to be associated to multiple concurrent transactions. Base product does no extra checking so without adding custom check customer activation will function identically whether feature is enabled or not. Note: This feature is controlled by configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Activate a Customer with Validation Configuration Grouping Cart Item by Fulfillment Groups With this feature, users can configure POS to use Fulfillment Groups to organize the presentation of items on the cart.  This gives the retailer more flexibility to use custom logic to sort/show the cart items, than the previous hard coded 'on the fly' approach. Note: This feature is controlled by configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Grouping Items on the Cart Configuration Till Audit (Drawer Count) A new Manager Function "Till Audit" is now available.  This allows the user to count the contents of the till, and compare the counted amount to the amount recorded in the database, with no change to the status of the till or the recorded amount. This is useful for mid-day drawer counting, when for example a manager wants to check the amount of cash that has accumulated without actually reconciling a till for the day.  If the counted amount varies from the amount that has been recorded, there is no adjustment - for reconciliation purposes, a count has occurred but the system recorded amount does not change. Following the till audit, a receipt is printed and an EJ record is generated. This feature is controlled by permissions. Related: Till Audit Configuration UI Resources Price Check This is a new feature that allows associates to conveniently check item prices without the 'baggage' of creating (and likely cancelling) a true customer order.  The price check feature simply shows a simplified screen into which associates may type or scan bar codes, for which items the prices - including relevant promotional deals - will be shown.  The records generated contain an attribute indicating that these records were generated via the Price Check function. This feature is controlled by permissions. Related: Price Check UI Resources Ability to Edit Order Quotes Previously once created, an Order Quote could not be revised.  Once retrieved, its data was automatically assigned to a new orderID prior to editing/re-saving.  With new functionality, retailers can configure Order Quotes to alternatively allow for retrieval/edit under the original orderID. Note: This feature is controlled by configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Convert Quote to Customer Order Configuration POS Fiscalization and Globalization Italy Fiscalization Point of Sale product is now compliant with Italy fiscal regulations via integration to an approved fiscal printer. Note: This feature is controlled by configuration which is disabled by default. Related: POS Fiscalization - Italy Store Customer Engagement POS Order and Line Level Notes - Enhanced Permission Control New granular grants are now added to control the Order and Line Level notes.  With these new permissions business can control if a specific user have the ability to view, add, edit or delete the Order and Line Level Notes.   This will allow greater business control over users who now can have permission for some but not necessarily all these activities - previously all order/line note activities were controlled by a single grant. Note: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: UI Resources POS Metrics and App Reports Conversion Metric We have added another metric to our existing store selling metrics to include store traffic count, which is designed to show what percentage of customer visits result in a sale.  The customer visit value for this metric must be supplied from an external 'traffic counter' system and is compared with the actual # confirmed orders for that day. This final metric is represented as a percentage (i.e. 10%) rounded to nearest whole number. The new metric will be added to the existing metrics, for those customers who have enabled metric display at the cart. Note: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Store Sales Metrics Configuration Reserve Online Pickup in Store Refer to Reserve Online Pickup in Store feature in the Order Management section of this document. Store Inventory & Fulfillment (SIF) Store Order Fulfillment Reserve Online Pickup in Store Refer to the Reserve Online Pickup in Store feature in the Order Management section of this document. FedEx Track Service FedEx has upgraded their Track API from their FedEx Web Services to FedEx REST Services protocol. Manhattan will be releasing a new version of our Track API which is compatible with the new REST protocol shortly after the market release in January 2024. FedEx plans to deprecate the Web Services version of the Track API in May 2024. Note: This feature is controlled by behavior change "Manhattan Active - FedEx REST Track" and requires additional configuration to be performed. Refer here for additional information on the Behavior Change Framework including when this feature will be automatically enabled and steps on how to enable it earlier. Related: Master Data Guide Store Inventory Management Store-Initiated Cycle Count Store managers can now create cycle counts for their stores in addition to corporate-initiated counts that are sent to the store. Counts can be created based on the criteria below. Once a store-initiated count is created, it is executed in the same manner as a corporate-initiated count. Inventory in error: Create a count of items that have been marked in error in Inventory Supply after being shorted during picking or packing. Negative inventory: Create a count of items with a negative quantity in Inventory Supply. Filter Criteria: Create a count of items based on store department, product class, style, color or size. Items: Scan or key enter item ID(s). Note: This feature is automatically available as part of the release and is controlled by permissions. Related: Store-Initiated Cycle Count Store Inventory UI resources Handheld RFID - Store Replenishment Several enhancements are made to Store Replenishment functionality: Minimum quantity - Minimum quantity can now be defined based on configurable rules. These rules can be defined based on store department, product class, style, color or size. Default sublocation - A default sublocation can now be configured for all RFID-enabled store functions. When a unit is processed in a function such as packing, receiving or encoding tags, its sublocation is updated based on the configured default. View Inventory by sublocation - The View Inventory UI is enhanced to display store inventory by sublocation. This is applicable only to stores that use sublocations. Note: The minimum sales floor quantity and default sublocation features are controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. The View inventory by sublocation feature is automatically available as part of the release. Related: Minimum quantity Minimum quantity configuration Default sublocation Default sublocation configuration View Inventory by sublocation Encode RFID tags Store Common Ivory Theme The Store application now offers a new "Ivory" theme with brighter colors and backgrounds. Note: This feature is controlled by configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Store app UI Overview Device & OS Support The Store application is now certified on Android 13. Note that additional steps are required when upgrading to Android 13 to avoid loss of data in apps including the Store app. Refer to Zebra's documentation for more information on the migration steps to follow which include installing a migration backup utility and running it prior to upgrade. With the certification of Android 13, the Zebra TC51/TC56 devices are now deprecated. These devices will be supported for one year (until the 25.1 release), after which time they will no longer be supported. Refer to the device/OS certification and deprecation page here for more information. Refer to the Certified Technology page for a complete list of certified devices and operating systems. Miscellaneous Changes Store - Additional Resource Protected Actions Resources have been added to the Store favorites, settings and blind receiving functions so they can be controlled by user permissions. Review your user roles to determine if they need to be updated with the new grants. Note: This feature is controlled by Change in Behavior "Store - Resource protection for existing actions". Refer here for additional information on the change in behavior framework including when this feature will be automatically enabled and steps on how to enable it earlier. Related: Store Inventory UI Resources Store Common UI Resources Store - Firebase API The Store application is upgrading to a newer version of the Firebase API. This is applicable for customers who are using push notifications with the Apple or Android version of the Store app. Note: This feature is controlled by Change in Behavior "Store - Firebase Push Notification API Migration". Refer here for additional information on the change in behavior framework including when this feature will be automatically enabled and steps on how to enable it earlier. Related: Firebase Account for Push Notifications Store - Upgraded App Third-party UI libraries used by the Store application have been upgraded to newer versions. Beginning with the 24.1 market release, new features and non-critical fixes will only be released in the upgraded Store application. The legacy Store application will receive only critical fixes until it is discontinued as part of the 24.3 release. Customers should plan to move to the upgraded app as soon as possible to continue receiving new features as well as fixes. Related: Store - Upgraded App