# Release 20.4

**Permalink:** release-20.4
**Content Length:** 5,385 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:48:01.991166

---

Home&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Release Notes&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;2020 ››Release 20.4 Manhattan Active Allocation Release Notes 20.4 &nbsp; Release Date: 10.16.2020 &nbsp; Manhattan Active Allocation Release Notes 20.4Master DataOrganizationTransaction DataAllocation MethodsAllocation Strategy WorkflowAllocation OutputMetric ViewAllocators Console Manhattan Active&reg; Allocation enables you to effectively distribute merchandise inventory to the stores by allowing you with the&nbsp;flexibility to define the store needs as per&nbsp; your&nbsp;business requirements. &nbsp; Master Data Users&nbsp;can create or interface the required master data for allocation. This includes Product , Location Location groups , Product-Locations and Calendar.&nbsp;Other master data used for allocation like Size profiles, grades , location minimum/maximum, lead-time and season start date can also be interfaced and viewed for respective product-locations. &nbsp; Organization Users can create Organization data like User set up , user roles and permission and organization profiles. &nbsp; Transaction Data Transaction data like planned sales ; other metrics such as sales or sales by fulfillment type and store and DC inventory can be interfaced in the application. These KPIs are useful in determining need variable for inventory allocation. &nbsp; Allocation Methods User can configure the methods for need computation by entering the calculation in form of an expression. These methods can be used for allocating inventory or calculating KPIs. &nbsp; Allocation Strategy Workflow Allocation strategy flow enables to specify business rules for user selected product supplies being supplied from specific DCs. The inventory will then be allocated to stores based on user specified need variable. &nbsp; Allocation Output Users can review the output of allocation and take further actions like approve or reject it based on the review. &nbsp; Metric View Metric view allows the users to get a quick summary of the allocation by graphically summarizing the allocation result details. &nbsp; Allocators Console Allocators console is a collection of charts to allow users to slice and dice the allocation output to help them take corrective actions. &nbsp;