# Release 22.2

**Permalink:** release-22.2-2
**Content Length:** 20,621 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:47:53.082565

---

Home&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Release Notes&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;2022 ››Release 22.2 Manhattan Active&reg; Allocation Release Notes 22.2 &nbsp; Product Location PhaseProduct Location GradeProduct Location ConstraintsMetric ConfigurationMetric TypesPlan ConfigurationPlan Metric TypesPlan TypesGrade ConfigurationGrade ConfigurationDemand TypesPullback Request (with integration to Manhattan Active Omni - Order Management)Inventory Segmentation integration with Manhattan Active Omni - Order ManagementInventory Performance AnalysisStore To Store Transfers Manhattan Active Inventory Allocation version 22.2 release is delivered with new capabilities for today&rsquo;s Omni-retailers that ensure the way users allocate is well aligned with how they engage their customers and their store teams. Additional new capabilities which provide allocators with the ability to analyze the impact of allocation strategies and manual changes have been added, along with enhanced functional ability for existing areas. Some of the most significant features are summarized below. &nbsp; KEY FEATURES: &nbsp; Product Location Phase Product Location Phase specifies the current life cycle phase of a product for a specified location. The admin, allocator, and manager can assign, modify and delete phases for product locations. &nbsp; &nbsp; Product Location Grade Product Location Grade screen enables the user to assign the grades for each store for the respective product categories. This grade can be assigned the grades for each store for the respective product categories. The admin, allocator, and manager can assign, modify and delete grades for product locations. &nbsp; &nbsp; Product Location Constraints User can configure the inventory constraints for a location for each product category. These inventory constraints are considered while planning allocation quantities for each product for respective stores. The admin, allocator, and manager can assign, modify and delete constraints for product locations. &nbsp; &nbsp; Metric Configuration Metric Types Metric Types are defined as the classification of measure. For example, Sale, e-comm sale, etc. User can also configure the duration of the metrics. For example, weekly, monthly, etc. The admin and manager can assign and modify the metric types. &nbsp; &nbsp; Plan Configuration Plan Metric Types Plan Metric Types are defined as a classification of the measure that is used in predicting the potential need at the stores. The future values of these metrics are saved in the plan metric component and used for the need calculations of the stores from the allocation component. The admin and manager can assign, modify and delete the plan metric types. &nbsp; &nbsp; Plan Types Plan Types provides the details about the classification of the plan. It also specifies the calendar level at which the plan metrics are interfaced. Multiple metric types can be associated with a plan type. The admin and manager can assign, modify and delete the plan types. &nbsp; &nbsp; Grade Configuration Grade Configuration Grade Configuration enables the user to specify store ranking based on certain KPIs. This ranking is applicable for the product category. This configuration is used in prioritizing the allocation across stores. The system admin will use this page to create a new grade or edit an existing grade. &nbsp; &nbsp; Demand Types New screen Demand Type is introduced to configure combining demand values of multiple metric types together for forecasting. Users can be able to configure demand types in the application and associate each demand type with one or more metric types used for tracking demand history. &nbsp; &nbsp; Pullback Request (with integration to Manhattan Active Omni - Order Management) There are times when inventory needs to be pulled from Stores back to the DC or another location. Allocators need the ability to communicate to stores what products and quantities need to be shipped and to which location. Active Allocation now supports the ability to easily initiate these Pullbacks whenever needed. This new screen enables user to specify products to be pulled back, from which stores, and the location which inventory is to be sent. &nbsp; &nbsp; After Pullbacks are configured, users can review a summary of statistics which gives users a chance to confirm statistics are as expected before approving and generating the orders. Once the Pullback is approved, orders are generated and sent to an outbound queue for processing and picking by store associates. &nbsp; To ensure the loop is closed with store execution, pullback orders are integrated with Manhattan Active Omni which sends orders to Store Order Fulfillment for execution. Pullback orders can also be integrated with 3rd party order management systems using the same APIs. &nbsp; Inventory Segmentation integration with Manhattan Active Omni - Order Management In addition to determining how much inventory is needed at the store level, Manhattan Active Allocation is responsible for determining how much supply needs to be held back in the distribution center to service e-commerce orders, in-season store replenishments, as well as other B2B selling channels. In this 22.2 release, Allocation is now able to share inventory segments directly with Manhattan Active Omni every time allocation decisions are made. &nbsp; &nbsp; Inventory Performance Analysis Manhattan Active Allocation introduced a new analytical capability to help the allocator understand which aspects of their allocation strategy are not yielding the performance that they estimated. Our Inventory Performance analytics specifically helps the user to understand why they are likely seeing sub-optimal performance and then identify alternatives which can generate better business results. This enhancement allows users to make critical adjustments in real time during the selling season. &nbsp; &nbsp; Store To Store Transfers &nbsp; New configuration &lsquo;X% of Destination need required to suggest transfer&rsquo; is added to allow for Allocation to suggest transfers when a source can provide less than the destination store&rsquo;s full need. This new configuration sets the threshold for how much of a store&rsquo;s need the overstock store must have before the system suggests a transfer. &nbsp;