# Release 22.4

**Permalink:** release-22.4
**Path:** Home/Release Notes/Manhattan Active® Omni/2022/Release 22.4
**Content Length:** 44,922 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:52:18.281706

---

Home››Release Notes››Manhattan Active® Omni››2022 ››Release 22.4 Manhattan Active® Omni Release Notes 22.4 Release Date: 10/7/2022 Manhattan Active® Omni Release Notes 22.4Order ManagementEnterprise InventoryVisibility of Future Inventory Availability Delivery Date - Ship to Store and Merge Shipment SupportDelivery Dates - Support for Incoming SourceContinuous Allocation - Inventory Shortage and Orders with Requested Delivery DatesOrders with Requested Delivery DatesOrder SellingQuote OrdersMAWM Integration for Shipping Address UpdateDigital Self ServiceReturn TrackingReturn Received and Order Cancellation Text MessagesText Message URL ShorteningOrder FulfillmentRefund on Receiving Return ItemseInvoice Generation for Electronic Data Interchange (EDI), Compliant e-Invoicing, and Digital Tax ReportingContact CenterSupport of Digital Goods Email Address Delivery OptionStacked Appeasements Customer EngagementPrivate Filters for Case List UI in Customer Engagement Dynamic Variables Customer NotesPoint of Sale (POS)POS Order SellingEnable Compact CartBOPIS - Sell More UX ChangesOrder QuotesDisplay Cancelled Order LinesAllow completion of return Order with Payment ProblemsStore Inventory & Fulfillment (SIF)Store Order FulfillmentRFID SupportShip from Store - RFID-Based PackingStore Exceptions Management - Idle TasksFulfillment Scorecard - Include pre-packing timeStore Inventory ManagementRFID-based Receiving Cycle CountingReceiving - Receive By OrderDevice and OS SupportManhattan ProActive™Extension Pack Deployment ManagementPre-deployment Validation ReportExtension Point Documentation Improvements Order Management Enterprise Inventory Visibility of Future Inventory Availability Prior to this release, inventory availability information provided to the selling channel included both on hand and future inventory in one single bucket. With this release, the availability response/alerts and syncs contain the breakdown between on-hand and future inventory, along with the details of future inventory records (quantity and ETA). This enables selling channels to expose backordered items with the appropriate ETA to the customer. The new fields added to the availability response, alerts and syncs are: The first available future quantity and ETA - available quantity and ETA of the first future supply record are in view. The on-hand quantity and on-hand status - available on-hand quantity in the view and the status of the on-hand inventory. Status is computed using the view thresholds for in stock, limited stock, and out of stock. The future quantity - available future quantity based on the view configuration. The breakdown of each future supply details with its available quantity, ETA, supply type, PO/ASN ID, and PO/ASN detail ID. Note: This feature is automatically, but partially, enabled as part of the release. The breakdown of future and on-hand inventory is automatically enabled; but to display the future supply details, a time frame needs to be configured in the "Availability Details" section of the View configuration. Related: Publish Availability View Configuration for Alerts View Configuration for Future Inventory Detail Visibility Delivery Date - Ship to Store and Merge Shipment Support Expected delivery dates can now be dynamically calculated for merge and pickup scenarios (ship to store) for all items in a cart and displayed on the checkout page using the cart and product ATP APIs. The delivery date API response contains scheduling information for all the legs of the delivery path. Note: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Delivery Date Services - Ship to Store Option Delivery Dates - Support for Incoming Source When calling the cart and product ATP APIs, it is now possible to specify PO, ASN, inventory attributes, and other supply level information to calculate delivery dates. The delivery date API also provides the ability to consider different sources (ATC view or specific DCs) for different lines of the request. The description of the requested source is done in the request detail of the delivery date API body. If the specified source is not available, the allocation will fail. For example, if a specific PO is passed on the request, but that PO does not exist or is already completely allocated, no delivery date can be computed. Note: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Delivery Dates Services - Support for Incoming Source Continuous Allocation - Inventory Shortage and Orders with Requested Delivery Dates Continuous allocation ensures new supply is made available to the highest priority order. It has been enhanced to support considering all locations for backorders with a Requested Delivery Date. Prior to this release, this functionality was only available for orders without requested delivery dates. Continuous Allocation now supports backorders and partial backorders, with or without the requested delivery date (RDD)/ latest possible delivery date (LPDD). Inventory rise in any location within the supply profile now makes the location eligible for allocation, provided the location passes the scheduling criteria. This applies to both the source types (view and DC) selected in the Fulfillment Optimization Configuration. Inventory rise at any of the selected DCs within the source rule is eligible for continuous allocation of complete or partial backorders. Continuous Allocation now honors "Ignore Protection Qty" in ANF Source when enabled in the Fulfillment Optimization Configuration strategy. Note: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Continuous Allocation Orders with Requested Delivery Dates Setting Customer expectations post order creates the ability to communicate the Committed Delivery Date at a unit level. For example, I can deliver 100 of the 150 units on October 25th and 50 units on November 8th. Active Omni APIs have been enhanced to return the detailed unit level breakup of committed delivery dates. This information is available when retrieving the details of an order, when publishing the order on the allocation details user interface, and configuration is available to notify customers of changes. Note: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Publishing Order Ability to Fulfill those Units that can Meet the Requested Delivery Date Manhattan Active® Omni is enhanced to ensure businesses can (when desired), release the units that can meet the requested delivery date as opposed to waiting for all units to be available. The release template configuration has been enhanced to support releasing on-hand quantities based on the requested delivery dates. Note: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. The Release Configuration needs to be modified to include the rule condition to release on-hand quantities. Order Selling Quote Orders This release supports quote orders for pricing agreements with different qualities, such as ship to address, pick up at store or in-store sale item. The Quote Orders feature requires order selling abilities to provide pricing details like price, promotions, charges, and taxes. The quote price is valid for a few days, post which the quote order is considered invalid. Quote orders are unconfirmed orders, and they don't need any fulfillment characteristics. This means that there is no need to reserve inventory, release or fulfill such orders. Note: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Quote Orders MAWM Integration for Shipping Address Update Integration with MAWM is now supported until packing begins. Related: Change Shipping Address Digital Self Service Return Tracking Customers can now track the status of their return orders. The new UI page includes real-time integration with carriers and Manhattan Active® Omni returns to display package status and refund status. In addition, the return confirmation email is updated to include a link to the new tracking page. Note: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Return Tracking Return Received and Order Cancellation Text Messages Customers can now be notified via text when return orders are received at the return facility and when customer order units are cancelled. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Transactional Texts Text Message URL Shortening Configuration for shortening text message URLs that are sent within text messages. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Transactional Texts Order Fulfillment Refund on Receiving Return Items Prior to this release, a single return invoice is generated and processed for refund when all the anticipated return lines are successfully verified (via return order event verification). This results in withholding the refunds until all the return lines are successfully verified by the return DC, thus blocking funds for the customer with high-value transactions. With this new feature, retailers can configure the system to generate multiple return invoices when items are received and verified at the DC. A return invoice is created for a return line when all its expected quantity is received successfully, rather than waiting for all the return lines to be processed. Return invoices are closed after refund transactions are processed. Return receipt and return verification are not allowed to be processed by the system once the retailer opts for this feature and only one process of return line verification is considered for generation of return invoices. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is defaulted to the current behavior of generating a single return invoice per return order. To switch to the new feature, the Return Verification Policy in Order Configuration has to be set to the Return Line option. Related: How Returns Work eInvoice Generation for Electronic Data Interchange (EDI), Compliant e-Invoicing, and Digital Tax Reporting Businesses are governed by various government policies, rules and regulations for reporting sales and taxes. Various countries have different kinds of rules and mandatory reporting formats which retailers have to comply with. There are various third-party solutions that support electronic data interchange (EDI), compliant e-Invoicing, digital tax reporting, and application integration that cater to these government policies, rules and regulations for reporting sales and taxes in different countries like Edicom. The Shipment, Return and Adjustment invoices currently being generated by the system require additional information and processing so that they can confirm the reporting formats of various government agencies and have adequate information for third party solutions to process the data. To facilitate this, a new feature has been enabled to generate eInvoices in addition to invoices being generated, which will contain additional information and structure to facilitate integration with third party service providers that support electronic data interchange (EDI), compliant e-Invoicing, and digital tax reporting solutions. Related: eInvoice Contact Center Support of Digital Goods Email Address Delivery Option In Contact Center and Customer Engagement, contact center agents can now add an email address for a digital order line. Once this feature is enabled, the delivery option 'email' is visible to agents; if the agent has the proper grants, they can edit the email address pre-release.  Users can only change or edit the email for one digital order line at a time. Note: This feature is controlled by the roll-out behavior change configuration Related: Change/Edit Email Id on Digital Goods Stacked Appeasements Customer Service users can now add appeasements within the order line or within the order header that are stackable. Note: This feature can be enabled via configuration. Related: Stacked Appeasement in Contact Center Customer Engagement Private Filters for Case List UI in Customer Engagement Contact center agents can now store private saved filters on the case list UI that are only accessible to the created users. The UI also has a visual indicator to differentiate between private and public saved filters. Note: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Case Fiilters on the Case List Page in Customer Engagement Dynamic Variables Email interaction templates that are used by contact center agents to fetch pre-defined email text can now be populated with placeholders that will be autopopulated when the template is selected and applied.  The placeholders can be dynamic variables that get autopopulated based on their value, like customer first name, last name, and so on, or constant messages like store timings, season greetings, and so on. There will also be a UI for users to modify the constant values. Note: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Pre-Populate Dynamic Variables and Constant Messages Customer Notes Contact center agents can now use the ‘Customer Notes’ functionality to add specific notes /instructions regarding a particular customer, so that it's easy for other agents working with the same customer to have a clear picture of the situation. Contact center agents will be able to view, add, edit, and delete customer-level notes in the Customer Engagement application. Note: This feature is grant protected. Related: Customer Notes Point of Sale (POS) POS Order Selling Enable Compact Cart Based upon a new business flag, the CART screen will show items in a collapsed state with just the minimum details of item description, quantity, and extended price when the item is added to the order, so the user can see more than the current one or two items on the CART screen. The user will have the ability to expand the item to see additional details (i.e., image, color, size, item modifiers such as discount) and then collapse the item again for space saving. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is enabled by default for NEW customers. Related: POS Selling Process POS Selling Configuration BOPIS - Sell More UX Changes The following changes were made to the BOPIS-Sell More UX to clarify the order experience for the associate and customer. 1. Separate items between parent and current pickup/sell more orders so the user can determine what is being picked up on today’s visit vs. what was previously picked up. 2. Show Return item(s) and "pills” (i.e., discount, VAS, tax, etc.) from the parent order on the CART screen. 3. Add columns to Transaction Summary in the CART/SUMMARY footer to clarify order totals, especially the balance due. Note: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: POS Selling Process Order Quotes Retailers can now provide customers with an order quote to guarantee the pricing of an item, or items, for a configurable amount of time. When the feature is fully configured, users will see an additional option within the CART to create a quote. A customer is required for this feature. If one is not already activated, the user will be prompted to search for one or create a new one. Additionally, if a return item or gift card is in the CART, the quote option will be disabled. Upon saving the quote, the user can choose to email or print a receipt for the quote. The details will be visible in both the Ejournal and in the Quote order details on the UI. Once created, the quote will remain valid for the configured amount of time. Users can retrieve the quote via global search or by navigating to the customer's purchase history screen. Retrieving the quote will create a new order and pull all relevant information into the cart including, but not limited to, items, pricing, promotions, applied associates, applied customer. Note: This feature is controlled by multiple configurations, one of which is enabled by default. Order Quote Config is created by default; however, expiration and POS Quote Configuration are not enabled by default. Additionally, user grants are not provided by default. Related: Quote Feature Outline Quote Enablement Display Cancelled Order Lines POS Order details screen can now display the cancelled lines on an order. Whenever an order line is voided, it is now displayed on the Order details screen against the specific order. This is supported from the base and does not require any specific configuration. Related: POS Selling Process Allow completion of return Order with Payment Problems In a scenario where the customer uses a third-party payment method, there is a chance that orders can go on hold due to reasons like non-creation of the payment transaction and/or the balance due is greater than zero. At this point, the user is stuck at the Order Summary screen and cannot proceed. To manage this scenario where POS does not have to conduct any validation, the business flag “Enable Override Refund Option Upon Failure” must be set to false so that the user is directly navigated to the receipt screen. If the override option must be enabled, then the Business flag value must be true. By default, the value of the business flag “Enable Override Refund Option Upon Failure” is set to True. Related: POS Return Process POS Cart Configuration Store Inventory & Fulfillment (SIF) Store Order Fulfillment RFID Support Store Inventory and Fulfillment has been enhanced to support Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) based packing for ship from store orders as well as inventory receiving. The flows are integrated with the Zebra RFD8500 handheld RFID reader which reads unit level tags. This includes: A default antenna strength is provided for each RFID-supported flow. Based on permissions, store associates can temporarily change the antenna strength of their device within a given flow. Events exist which can be used to update an external Electronic Product Code (EPC) master system, such as when a new tag is received or when the availability of a tag changes because it was packed. Associates can scan a Serialized Global Trade Identification Number (SGTIN) barcode, which is commonly printed as a 2D barcode on RFID tags. These barcodes can be scanned in exceptional scenarios, such as when the RFID inlay is damaged or if a RFID reader is not available. For retailers whose tags include a SGTIN barcode, SIF UIs are enhanced to accept the barcode to allow associates to scan a single barcode throughout the application. The supported flows can be extended to integrate with RFID readers other than the Zebra RFD8500. Ship from Store - RFID-Based Packing Store associates can now pack customer shipment orders by reading unit-level tags instead of scanning item barcodes. Packing with RFID tags ensures every unit's status is maintained and accounted for, improving overall accuracy of inventory while also reducing handling time. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: RFID Packing Process Packing Configuration Store Exceptions Management - Idle Tasks Idle tasks have been added to the Store Exception feature, which was released in v22.3. Customer pick and pack tasks which have been idle for longer than a configured period of time are now displayed in the Store Exceptions UI, giving store managers immediate visibility of stalled tasks. It is possible to directly navigate to the Task Monitoring UI where the task can be reassigned to another associate. Separate idle time thresholds configurations exist for pickup pick tasks, shipment pick tasks, and shipment pack tasks. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default as well as by permission. Related: 22.3 release notes Store Exceptions Management Picking Picking Configuration Packing Packing Configuration Fulfillment Scorecard - Include pre-packing time Retailers and store managers now have the ability to include time spent by store associates on pre-packing activities in the overall packing time. The pre-packing time is calculated as the time spent by the associates on the Packing UI before the first item to pack is scanned. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Fulfillment Scorecard Process Fulfillment Scorecard Configuration Store Inventory Management RFID-based Receiving Store associates can now receive store inventory and ship to store packages which have unit-level tags using a handheld RFID reader. Receiving by RFID tags allows retailers to achieve unit-level receipt accuracy in a fraction of the time it would normally take since it does not require the associate to open the package and scan each item's barcode. Associates read tags for the packages which they would like to receive. The Receiving UI builds a list of all packages with matching units along with a visual indication of expected versus read quantity. Associates can view the package details and remove a package if discrepancies exist, and the package will be set aside and investigated later. A list of EPCs can optionally be sent as part of the ASN interface. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: RFID Receiving Process Receiving Configuration Cycle Counting Based on configuration, multiple users are now able to count the same item in a cycle count. This allows counters to divide the store up into geographical areas (i.e., sales floor and backroom), count the items they find in their areas and individually submit them. When all counting is complete, the cycle count is ready for review. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Cycle Count Process Cycle Count Configuration Receiving - Receive By Order If an order is received as part of two or more "Receive By Order" receipt type packages, store associates can now view and keep track of previously received units for the order lines which have already been received as part of other packages. As a result, they are also able to monitor and receive the number of units remaining to be received for all the order lines in the order. Both previously and currently received units are now color-coded, thereby making it easier for store associates to determine if the received quantity is equal to the expected quantity. Note: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Receiving Process Device and OS Support The Store application now certifies the iPhone SE (3rd generation 2022 model.) In addition, Store Inventory and Fulfillment flows are now certified on devices running Windows OS. For a full list of supported devices and OS', please check the Certified Technology page. Manhattan ProActive™ This release of Manhattan Active® Omni further improves upon extensibility capabilities and API (Application Programming Interface) documentation. Manhattan ProActive has added features which improve management of extension packs. The application now supports the capability to turn on/off extensions by organization and the ability to validate an extension pack for technical configuration dependencies prior to deployment. An extensibility guide is now available via its own tile in the developer documentation section. Extension Pack Deployment Management An extension pack can be deployed to one or more organizations. Once deployed, customers may need to manage the deployment of the extension. Some examples are, the ability to do a phased roll out of the extension across organizations or brands, and the ability to turn off an extension entirely. Manhattan ProActive now has a new capability which allows you to turn on, turn off or selectively turn on an extension. This can be achieved via the Manage Extensions action available on the Extension Pack list screen. Once invoked, you will be able to view and manage the organization for which the extension is enabled. Note: The capability is currently available for API extensibility only. DB extensions once deployed cannot be “turned off”. We will follow this up with UI extensibility support in the upcoming release. Pre-deployment Validation Report We have added a pre-validation report to ensure that technical configuration dependencies for API extensibility such as response templates, message types, and so on are configured properly prior to deployment of an extension pack. An extension when tested in a lower lifecycle environment may work fine prior to deployment in another environment (production). This feature will ensure that the target environment also has dependent technical configurations in-place prior to deployment of extensions. Extension Point Documentation Improvements The Extensibility Guide can now be accessed directly from the Developer Documentation tile.