# Release 17.4

**Permalink:** release-notes
**Path:** Home/Release Notes/Manhattan Active® Omni/2017/Release 17.4
**Content Length:** 25,163 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:52:58.528653

---

Home››Release Notes››Manhattan Active® Omni››2017 ››Release 17.4 Manhattan Active™ Omni Release Notes (17.4) Release Date: 10.6.2017 Order ManagementBatch Allocation and Release WMOS Integration SegmentationMerge ShipmentForce AllocationOrder Subscription DashboardStore Inventory & FulfillmentManager Dashboard Additional PurchaseReceive InventoryBrowser ScanningAuto-select Orders during Picklist CreationAt Risk OrdersPacking slip for Gift ItemsPickup Order AgePoint of SaleGlobal SearchCatalog CategoryCartOrder SummaryProcess ReceiptBOPIS (Buy Online, Pickup In-Store)ReturnsClientelingEmployeeDevice Management'Smart Scan' Bar Code Rules Capability Order Management Batch Allocation and Release When the fulfillment needs to be prioritized across specific types of orders or lines, and when backordered lines are to be fulfilled, the allocation and release process should run in batch mode. Allocation and Release are two independent processes and hence the batch release can be used for the lines allocated outside of the batch allocation process. This batch process can be used for any types of orders including store replenishment, business to business and customer orders. Accumulating the orders to allocate, provides an opportunity to prioritize the order lines when supply and capacity are constrained. Flexibility is available to schedule the run time and filter orders to allocate and release. Releasing the work to the DC/Store by batching and scheduling also helps with the productivity in the fulfillment location. WMOS Integration In order to provide a seamless integration between the Manhattan suite of products, we continue to provide an out of the box MIF (Manhattan Integration Framework) adapter to enable WMS and Active Omni solution. As a first of that series, we delivered the WMOS v2017 and an Active OMS Integration solution. MIF v2017 was expanded to understand the JSON structure and to communicate with SQS (Amazon Simple Queue Service). MIF also holds all the transformations that are required to convert the message formats and contents that each of the products can understand. The scope of the integration includes all the standard master data, order, return and inventory flow between the products. Segmentation Inventory segmentation is the virtual division of the inventory within the same location based on logical groups (different channels). This is done to ensure every channel has enough inventory supply to service its customers. Segmentation also helps in understanding the market trends and allows retailers to reach to it by adjusting the target inventory level. Following use cases are supported for segmentation: Segment on hand inventory based on segment strategy - percentage and priority. Rebuild segmented inventory (also known as re-segmentation) based on pre-defined segment configuration. This is done to take care of First time segmentation, Introduction of new sales channels or adjust the inventory level for segments based on the market demands. Manual transfer of on hand inventory across segments for a specific item and location. Configure ATC views to include segment(s) and also publish segmented inventory as part of availability outbound messages. This can be used to capture orders and provide realistic service levels to the customers. Inventory managers know the availability by segments and can avoid overpromising in case the inventory falls short for a segment. Ability to prioritize segments during fulfillment optimization. Merge Shipment Merge shipment is a concept where an order is merged or consolidated at a location before the final shipment or pick up. The use cases include: A particular location cannot ship directly to the customer, in some cases because of branding labels & packaging. B2B and Retail replenishment orders are fulfilled from multiple vendors and locations, but they should be shipped to the Customer or Store from a single location to reduce cost. Ability to model multi leg merge routes, when the product is transported by internal fleet across multiple locations before shipping to end customer and calculate accurate delivery dates. A typical merge shipment scenario involves: Origin location – The location where the inventory is available Merge location (or locations) - The intermediary node where the order is shipped before the final shipment Destination – The destination where the order needs to be shipped The following flavors of merge shipment are supported: Merge location and origin location provided on the order lines Merge location provided on the order, and the fulfillment optimization decides the optimal origin location(s) Merge routes are defined for each of the origin location, and the system decides the optimal origin location Any location in the supply chain can be used as merge location and there is no systemic limit on the number of merge locations used in between the origin and destination. The optimal route is chosen by comparing the overall fulfillment cost of all the locations involved from origin to destination. The overall fulfillment cost is calculated by considering the shipping cost and the proximity of all the locations on the route and the capacity, performance, inventory level, handling cost and price margin at the origin location. The carrier zone data with transit time and shipping cost and the merge route definition are the prerequisite to determine the optimal route. Force Allocation Force Allocation is used to fulfill an order line from a location regardless of inventory availability at that location. The use cases are: Vendor location for which the inventory is not being maintained in the system and is assumed to be available. The host system decides the location from where the order needs to be fulfilled for whatever reasons As an override: The order has been backordered from a store and one wishes to allocate to DC directly. There is a mismatch between inventory values in the system and actual inventory,  providing ability to push the order to a location one knows inventory actually exists. Fulfillment Strategies – can be configured to force allocate to a particular location, for example the parent DC instead of backordering. This is used as a last resort option when the configuration is not able to allocate orders because of inventory constraints The force allocation can happen from a location even when there is no inventory maintained or not enough inventory available at that location. When the inventory is maintained the force allocation uses up the inventory (increases allocated quantity) up to how much ever is available and maintains it accordingly throughout the fulfillment cycle. Order Subscription Dashboard Subscription Dashboard allows customers to define monthly order projections and view usage in relation to their subscription plan. The dashboard draws the comparison of cumulative daily order count from the system and the monthly forecasts. Depending on the subscription model, the dashboard can be for the Active Omni solution or split by OMS and POS. The dashboard also provides visual warnings when it is projected to be within 10% of subscription level and potential overage fees when it is projected that subscription level will be exceeded. Store Inventory & Fulfillment Manager Dashboard Store managers now have a one-stop real time view of today’s fulfillment tasks. Information is grouped by delivery method: pickups vs shipments. Counts of store's orders for the day are represented visually by progress, with the ability to configure when an order should be identified as at risk and orders at risk of missing promise or delivery dates are highlighted and actionable. This allows store managers to take the appropriate steps to meet customer expectations. For both pickups and shipments, fulfillment metrics are displayed. The fulfillment percentage indicates how many units were fulfilled versus ordered for store orders prepared for the day. Store managers can use this information to address inventory accuracy issues. Fulfillment processing time summarizes the time taken to prepare the orders since they were released to the store, enabling the store to understand how they are performing against expectations. For pickup orders, additional information related to customer pickups is displayed. The total number of orders awaiting customer pickup is displayed, as well as any orders that have not been picked up in defined pick up time and should be returned to shelf. The number of store pickups completed and cancelled by customers are also shown. Time taken by customers to pickup their orders since they were prepared is also shown. Managers can immediately view upsell & ROI of BOPIS initiatives with additional purchase metrics that show additional units and increased sales during pick up. Additional Purchase While a customer is picking up an ordered item at the store, additional items can be sold and will be incorporated as modifications to the order. This also allows BOPIS (Buy Online, Pickup In-Store) items to be introduced to the selling cart so that a single transaction may be processed at point of sale. Opportunity to smoothly up-sell during a pickup. Added items can be tracked seamlessly as additions to the parent order. Receive Inventory The receiving process has been simplified in this release. Associates simply scan a package, and the system determines how the package should be received and whether it belongs to a larger shipment with other packages. Capabilities are added to support the following receiving flows which supplement the existing receiving functionality at the package and item levels. Receive load - Receive all package(s) for a shipment with a single scan of the package. Receive order - Receive unknown package(s) for a known order, when an ASN does not exist in the system. Receive unknown order- Receive package(s) for an unknown order, blind receipt. The ability to stage site to store orders during receiving or after receiving is complete has also been introduced. Browser Scanning To support faster transactions from the browser, the scan field is now present on the main screen panel for the screens listed below. This allows associates to perform scans inline with wedge scanners without having to navigate to another screen or interact with the keyboard. Select Picklist - Accepts the picklist ID Pick item - Accepts the item ID Pack item - Accepts the item ID Receiving - Accepts the package ID In addition, cursor positioning now defaults to the scan field on the Confirm Pickup screen to support faster searching by order number. Auto-select Orders during Picklist Creation Using the configured max number of orders to pick at once, for example 10. The top 10 orders are now automatically selected on the Prepare Pickups and Prepare Shipments screens. Associates can deselect the automatically selected orders and/or select other orders, if desired. At Risk Orders Pickup and shipment orders to prepare now have an indication to represent if they are at risk of missing their due date, making it easier for stores to prioritize these orders. Orders that have already missed their due dates are also highlighted. Packing slip for Gift Items If a packlist for an order marked as a gift is printed, the prices are not shown on the packing slip. An order is marked as a gift order if one or more lines in that order is marked as a gift. Pickup Order Age The age of Ready for Pickup orders is now calculated based on the time at which they were picked, instead of when they were released to the store. Pickup orders that are yet to be prepared continue to show their age from the time they were released to store. Point of Sale Global Search Manhattan Active POSC now offers a consistent and easy to use search interface.  Global Search provides similar lookup strategies for Items, Customers and Orders in order to reduce store associate on screen time and to simplify training.  Elastic search technology allows fast search performance using unstructured search criteria and user friendly scrollable/sortable result lists. Search is consistently available where appropriate on the toolbar in most screens and transaction states. Global item search will display results in a matrix view similar to the product catalog. A user can choose to select an item and navigate to the item details page. Global customer search allows a user to search for a customer from anywhere within the POS portion of the application, as well as from the Home Screen.  A user can choose to select a search result and will be guided to the customer record, or they can choose to perform a quick swipe and activate the customer for quickly applying them to an order. Global order search allows a user to look up and view a specific order's details. Users can choose to search not just by the order number, but by the order creation date or the customer's name, email address or phone number Catalog Category Category groupings within the product catalog are now configurable by the retailer so that catalog display will match existing digital catalog and department/class schemes. Cart The Point of Sale Cart allows the user to easily scan or enter items to sell to a customer. Any item or transaction modifications can be done from within the cart.  If an item or items are selected, the modification(s) will occur on the line item(s). If no item is selected the modification is on the entire transaction. A user can add an item first, and then choose to modify it from an in-store purchase to a ship-to address, or to a pickup/ship-to store item. Modifications will shown under the expanded line item. A user can choose to collapse the line to view fewer details. Discount modifiers have been added and these support both percent or dollar off, from selectable lists. Order Summary The order summary screen is a recap of the items being purchased by the customer, and where the user will choose the payment method(s) to be applied to the transaction. The user will see a scrollable list of the items within the purchase/return, and can choose to go back to the cart to make any changes prior to tendering the transaction. Process Receipt The process receipt screen allows the user to configure the delivery method for the receipt. User can choose to email, print or both, and based on their selection the action button will dynamically change. If a customer has been applied to a transaction and the customer has an email address on file, the email option will be preselected and prepopulated. The user can deselect this option if necessary. Print receipt is selected by default, and can be deselected if the customer only wishes to have an emailed receipt sent to them. Gift Receipt is also selectable as an option. BOPIS (Buy Online, Pickup In-Store) Sell Additional Items during Pickup - While a customer is picking up an ordered item at the store, additional items can be sold and will be incorporated as modifications to the order. This allows the BOPIS item to be introduced to the selling cart so that one transaction may be processed at point of sale. Opportunity to smoothly up-sell during a pickup. Added items can be tracked seamlessly as additions to the parent order. Returns Associates will be able to return items from multiple original orders from different sales channels, within a transaction. Smart Scan - In addition to Return/Exchange menu option, "Smart-scan" logic allows entry to Return mode by scanning a receipt barcode. Streamlined Flow/Matching - No need to identify the type of return in advance.  Populate Return mode with orders (receipts) and items.  Item/Order matching functionality will align returning items and valid orders with each other, as well as identify any orphan items not found on the receipts, or not previously returned. Configurable refund tendering - Refund tender can be automatically assigned based on original tender(s). Configuration rules are also available for split refund tender as well as tender override options. Clienteling All store-level customer activities may be accessed in Clienteling. Customer information may be viewed, edited or deleted as needed with a customer master. Wish list information may be viewed, and items can also be added to the cart, workspace or even to an email from this view. Items can also be removed from the wish list at customer request. All customer activity is found in one central location. Appointments, tasks, phone logs and email logs can all be viewed, added, edited or deleted from the Activity tab. Customer past purchases can also be viewed with additional information regarding the order subtotal, tax, shipping and total value of the order.  A user may also reprint the receipt for an order when the customer requests it. Customers can now be applied to an order/transaction by selecting the Guest (tap to apply) menu from within the catalog or Cart.  The user will be brought to the Global Customer Search and can either search for an existing customer, or add a new customer. Employee All employee-facing activities can be found under the Employee section of the application. User can access all appointments and tasks, as well as add, edit and delete from this screen without having to navigate to the customer record User can also create notes for themselves which are not customer dependent. Device Management More user-friendly device management as an alternative to on premise pre-installation of store POS devices. Individual uploads for Printers, Cash Drawers, Registers and Payment Terminals. Rule based assignments. Rule based Registration process with UI support for easy in store installation. Flexibility to associate or dis-associate a device from a Register number. 'Smart Scan' Bar Code Rules Capability Ability to scan Customer and employee in addition to Item and add them to the transaction based on the UI context.  Basically, rule-based identification of bar codes.