# Release 19.3

**Permalink:** release-notes-19.3
**Content Length:** 21,925 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:47:31.615376

---

Home&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Release Notes&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;2019 ››Release 19.3 Manhattan Active&trade; Omni Release Notes&nbsp;19.3 Release Date: 6.21.2019 &nbsp; Order ManagementSupport for Non-Discountable ItemsDigital Self-Service - Support for Additional Form FactorsOutbound Sync: Publish All InventorySupport Multiple Merge RoutesAvailability Sync: Ability to send changes onlySupport for Extended Order StatusesAlertsCross Organization Order VisibilityItem Attribute LocalizationStore &amp; Inventory FulfillmentCycle CountFulfillment Instructions - Display Instruction TypeLocalization EnhancementsItem Translation Support Order Locale Capture&nbsp;Point of SalePOS Localization EnhancementItem Language Selection&nbsp;Item Global Search and Catalog&nbsp;Cart Screen&nbsp;API Security&nbsp; &nbsp; Order Management Support for Non-Discountable Items Configuration is added to ensure that the manual header discounts are not prorated against items which are not discountable. For example, if a store associate applies for 10% discount to an order, which has items such as gift cards and non-merchandise, then for these items discount&nbsp;should not be applied.&nbsp;This feature is enabled for manual header discounts which use charge type &#39;Discount&#39;. Digital Self-Service - Support for Additional Form Factors The Digital Self-Service responsive UI&nbsp;supports customized experiences to mobile, iPad, and desktop form factors. Customers can access Digital Self-Service using a wider variety of devices, and we deliver an experience that&rsquo;s designed specifically for each form factor.&nbsp;In addition to supporting mobile form factors, Digital Self-Service is now certified on iPad and desktop (including Safari and Chrome). Outbound Sync: Publish All Inventory The inventory outbound sync provides the ability to configure inventory that is published for changes since the previous sync, or it provides a complete inventory picture. A new supply sync configuration &#39;Publish All&#39; can be used to enable the full outbound sync. The existing functionality of considering only non-zero records for partial sync and all records for full sync remains unchanged.The inventory outbound sync provides the ability to configure inventory that is published for changes since the previous sync, or it provides a complete inventory picture. A new supply sync configuration &#39;Publish All&#39; can be used to enable the full outbound sync. The existing functionality of considering only non-zero records for partial sync and all records for full sync remains unchanged. Note: Anyone&nbsp;using this functionality needs to reconfigure the job schedule. The existing job schedule type &#39;syncOutboundJob&#39; will not support this enhancement. To use this feature,&nbsp;a new job schedule type &#39;supplySyncOutboundJob&#39; needs to be used. Support Multiple Merge Routes When an order is allocated from a location, it can be routed through other locations before getting shipped to a destination. This existing feature can be achieved by configuring merge Route for a location. This feature now supports multiple merge routes for a location along with matching criteria to allow/disallow merge. Locations can be created with multiple merge routes along with &#39;ExternalRouteId&#39;. During order creation, integration layer or host system needs to provide &#39;ExternalRouteId&#39; for line/s or order as a part of promising details. The promising engine will consider it as matching criteria and find the merge route with a matching&nbsp;&#39;ExternalRouteId&#39; and create merge legs per merge route details. In case, there is no matching merge route for a location, origin location itself will directly ship order to destination like a regular fulfillment. There will not be any default value populated for Call Center Orders, customization to be done during order creation for populating it. Note: Inventory Location UI is enhanced to display Merge Route details. Availability Sync: Ability to send changes only External Systems need inventory availability picture from Order Management to allow order capture or reserve stock from one or multiple channels. Existing feature provides a schedule for &nbsp;&#39;Full Sync&#39; for multiple days of a week for an ATC View. This sends entire commerce availability as per the corresponding View. As part of this release, anyone who requests to receive sync details for availability changes since the last sync published, can schedule &#39;Delta Sync&#39;. It can be scheduled only for Location View with sync frequency in hours such as 1, 2, 4 and so on or you can also schedule for 30 minutes. Every run will have the availability details of the items which have undergone the availability change since the last &#39;Delta Sync&#39; published. Messages will only be sent if View is active during such changes and at the time of the DeltaSync run. Also, there will not be any StartSync or EndSync messages. Only SyncDetail messages for every eligible location and item combination will be sent to the Delta Sync queue. Note: An availability change for an item can be because of multiple events such as Supply Updates from Host system, Item or Location Update, Item-Location Configuration Update, Capacity exhausted and hence&nbsp;marked as Full, Location or Item-Location Outage Active or Expired, Future inventory constraints based on ETA. Support for Extended Order Statuses Extended statuses can be configured in the order state transition to track key business processes which are part of the order lifecycle. For example, if a retailer wants to perform a fraud check process before releasing orders, an extended status &#39;Fraud Check Passed&#39; can be added after &#39;Allocated&#39; status to invoke a fraud check service, and cancel or release the order based on the results. Another common use case is to track additional statuses after an order is released to downstream systems; a retailer could track custom statuses from the DC or post-delivery updates which are pushed to Active&trade; Omni from an external system. Two mechanisms are provided for moving units to an extended status; via user exit invoked from Active&trade; Omni, or via an order event pushed from an external system. These extended statuses are tracked in the order quantity detail and rolled up to the order line and header fulfillment status. Outbound Publish Order and Publish Order Line messages can be triggered when quantity moves to a custom status. Extended statuses are visible in the Customer Service UIs and Order List UI. Note: There is no UI to configure extended statuses or view the order state transition pipeline,&nbsp;but they can be configured via REST API.&nbsp; Alerts The below mentioned Alerts are added: Order Reprocessing Alert is generated when Order State Transition messages from Open to Allocated and Allocated to Released fail to get processed after reprocessing attempts due to some reason. Order Cancellation Alert is generated if Orders getting canceled in the system per day meet the threshold configured for the day of the week. Aged Orders Alert is generated if the order does not reach specified order milestones within the expected amount of time as configured in Order Milestones for Confirmed, Allocated, Released and Fulfilled Order Milestones. Individual Alerts can be enabled or disabled using Alert Configuration UI&nbsp; Cross Organization Order Visibility Cross organizations orders are visible on customer transactions list UI of contact center. The orders of selected organization and its children the user has access to are displayed. This feature is enabled only when call center configuration &quot;View Orders across Organization&quot; is turned on and by default this configuration is turned off and will display only transactions of the selected order. A new field Organization ID is introduced on the customer transaction list to indicate the Organization ID of each order. Once, the user selects a particular order for viewing additional details or to modify the order the corresponding organization is set as selected. Item Attribute Localization Item attribute localization data is displayed on Item search UI (Item list and item details) of a contact center and on order details. This feature is enabled only when call center configuration &quot;Enable Item Attribute Localization&quot; is turned on and by default this configuration is turned off and&nbsp;item attributes are searched and results are&nbsp;displayed in base value. Item attribute data localization is based on the user locale selection on item search UI. A new field Language is introduced on the item search UI to indicate the user locale selection and allows item search and item results to be displayed based on the locale selection. A new configuration is introduced in item component to specify the item base value locale this will be used to determine if the item search should be based on base value locale or user selected locale. Also, during the order creation the item attributes are stored in localized value based on user selection locale. And any modification will honor order locale. Store &amp; Inventory Fulfillment Cycle Count Manhattan Active Store now supports mobile-based cycle count execution in the store to help retailers maintain a high degree of&nbsp;inventory accuracy. Cycle count requests for a group of items are sent to the store from a corporate system&nbsp;and then counted by associates. Once counting is completed, an optional review process allows senior-level store personnel to review any item counts whose variance exceeds a configured threshold. On-hand inventory is updated for items whose count differs from the expected. Counting supports the following: Multiple associates can perform counts on the same request Once the associate completes counting, a list of uncounted items can be displayed. From that list, the associate can choose to directly update item counts, return to counting, or mark items&nbsp;as out of stock. Configuration is available to automatically update the count quantity of uncounted item(s) to zero or mark&nbsp;as &quot;Declined&quot;&nbsp;at the time of completing the cycle count request.&nbsp;&nbsp; Pause&nbsp;and resume&nbsp;is available on the same or different device based on connectivity. The review process&nbsp;supports the following: If the review process is enabled, item counts whose variance falls outside of the configured&nbsp;threshold&nbsp;must be reviewed.&nbsp;Variance thresholds can be defined based on quantity,&nbsp;percentage or both. As an example,&nbsp;assume&nbsp;the&nbsp;percentage variance threshold is defined as 15%. If the expected inventory for Item A is 10 units and only 8 units are counted, the Item a&nbsp;count would be flagged for review. Using&nbsp;the same scenario&nbsp;if 11 units were counted, the count would not be flagged for review since the variance&nbsp;is less than 15%. The ability to perform the review function is permission-based. For item counts needing review,&nbsp;the reviewer can either&nbsp;approve the count or send the item back to be recounted at which time it enters&nbsp;the counting process again. Inventory updates are sent to Inventory Management to update on-hand inventory. These updates are sent as the counts are submitted for item counts that do not require review, and as lines are approved for those that require review. In order to perform an accurate comparison of actual versus expected inventory, no inbound or outbound transactions should occur in the store for the items on the count from the time that counting begins until it is finished. Fulfillment Instructions - Display Instruction Type Instruction type is now displayed to store associates along with the instruction text.&nbsp;For example, if a customer order requests that a personalized gift message be included as part of the order (instruction type = &quot;Gift message&quot;), the&nbsp;instruction would be&nbsp;displayed as &#39;Gift message&nbsp;- Happy Birthday!&quot;&nbsp;during picking and packing to give the associate additional information about the purpose of the instruction. The same instructions&nbsp;can also be displayed when the customer picks up an order. This is controlled via configuration. Localization Enhancements When Store Inventory &amp; Fulfillment is deployed across multiple regions with different primary languages, store associates are now able to view item information based on their locale while customer-facing documentation is generated in the customer&#39;s preferred language. For example, take the scenario of a customer who places&nbsp;an order in English which is fulfilled from a store whose associates&#39; primary language is French. While picking, the associate will see item information in French but the packing slip is generated English.&nbsp;To support such scenarios, the following enhancements have been made. Item Translation Support Retailers can now maintain key item details in multiple languages (locales) such as item description, color, size, department, images, etc. If present,&nbsp;the item details are displayed in the store associate&#39;s&nbsp;primary locale for&nbsp;store inventory and fulfillment operations.&nbsp; Order Locale Capture&nbsp; Store Inventory and Fulfillment&nbsp;now utilizes the order locale&nbsp;to print customer-facing documents such as the&nbsp;pickup slip&nbsp;and packing slip in the customer&#39;s language. Point of Sale POS Localization Enhancement Manhattan Active Store now supports the Localization of the item attributes at the store level. Store associates can change the language as per the customer&rsquo;s choice to display the item attributes in the selected locale. The selected language can also be used to create the order in the same locale.&nbsp; For example: A French speaking customer walks in to the store where the primary language of the associate is English. The store associate can select the French language from the application dropdown to search the item and create order in French. Item Language Selection&nbsp; The language selection for the display of time attribute depends on the different languages that are&nbsp;available in the dropdown at the home screen of the user. Every associate has two languages defined for them- Primary and Secondary. The Primary language of the user defines in which locale overall application is displayed. This locale ensures the labels and screen of the application is displayed in the selected language. Retailers can define the&nbsp;Secondary language at the Available User Locale for individual user and this is displayed at the dropdown&nbsp;menu in Item Language selector. The translated values are picked based on the language picked at Item Language selector&nbsp;and displayed - provided the translation exists for the item attributes. Currently it is limited to the Item Attributes such as&nbsp;Item Description, Size, Color, Department and&nbsp;Catalog. A Business Flag is introduced to control the display of the Item Language Selector at the home screen for the user. In case the Business Flag is turned off, the Item Language Selector is not displayed for the associate even if the secondary languages are defined for the same associate. Item Global Search and Catalog&nbsp; Retailers now have the ability to search the item based on the specific locales. For example: For a French customer the associate can run an item search based on the color Rouge. Search returns the items which has color as Rouge in item details. Item Details displays the attributes such as Item Description, Color and&nbsp;Size in the selected locale. The Catalog information in the POS store app is also localized. The Catalog Name and the thumbnail image for the menu is also displayed in the selected locale.&nbsp; Cart Screen&nbsp; The item added in the Cart screen displays the item attributes in the language selected from the Item Language selector. The same language is stored in the order locale which is used later to get the localized information on receipts, returns etc. for the order. API Security&nbsp; With Manhattan&rsquo;s latest Active&trade; Omni 19.3 release, we have improved our security by introducing additional API authorization resources. These new resources do not revoke any system access for existing users. They give additional capabilities to restrict access to Manhattan Active&trade; APIs and make it easier for you to configure levels of access for your users per your business security. Please work with your CSO or PSO engagement manager to determine if you should make further changes to your authorization configuration. &nbsp;