# Release 18.4

**Permalink:** release-notes-18.4
**Path:** Home/Release Notes/Manhattan Active® Omni/2018/Release 18.4
**Content Length:** 28,828 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:52:57.042473

---

Home››Release Notes››Manhattan Active® Omni››2018 ››Release 18.4 Manhattan Active™ Omni Release Notes (18.4) Release Date: 9.21.2018 Order ManagementFulfillment Optimization: Promising Strategies - Capacity OverridesFulfillment Optimization: Promising Strategies - Inventory ReapportionmentPullback & Transfer orders – Over shipmentInventory Supply User Interface: Reset Inventory in ErrorOrders User Interface: Excel Upload OptionLarge OrderCustomer EngagementAutomatic Case Creation for Order DelayVirtual Assistant Returns with AlexaAppeasement Threshold Limits for User RolesDrill Down Case Metrics and Case Filtering by URL ParametersConfigure Payment Updates to Customer Master by Payment TypeExtended Attribute Support on Return Event Point of SalePromotion SuggestionsShipping PromotionsProduct Catalog - Filter Unavailable ItemsPayment ReconciliationCouponsAppointment and Task CalendarCustomer ActivationCustomer Loyalty EmojiBack-office VariancePickup at Store and Auto-complete SuggestionApply Sales AssociatesAmount Discount CalculationStore Inventory & FulfillmentPick to SlotPullbacks and TransfersCloud FrameworkSimplified Configuration UpdatesConfiguration DirectorStore Configuration OverrideStore UI: Branded Background Image Order Management Fulfillment Optimization: Promising Strategies - Capacity Overrides A new value for Fulfillment optimization strategy capacity override - Consider Capacity - has been introduced as part of this release. There are now three capacity overrides available to support different business needs. None - the default value which indicates that no capacity override has been set. Capacity will be considered as defined in the view. Ignore Capacity - When selected, locations running at full capacity are also considered for allocation, but the locations are excluded from publishing availability in the view configuration. (NEW) Consider Capacity - When selected, locations that are running at full capacity are not considered for allocation, but the locations are included in the view for publishing. Use case # 1: When a location is at full capacity: Do not publish availability for the location. Do not allocate orders to that location. This is controlled by ATC configuration “Exclude inventory from facilities at full capacity”. "Override capacity : None" is the default behavior and  indicates no capacity override is performed. Locations at full capacity will not be considered for allocation based on this ATC configuration. Use case # 2: When a location is at full capacity: Do not publish availability for the location. Allocate existing orders to that location (when inventory exists). This is achieved by setting the "Override capacity: Ignore Capacity" option. This option works when the ATC configuration "Exclude inventory from facilities at full capacity" is set. Use case # 3: NEW Support to publish inventory based on inventory availability and consider capacity during allocation. When a location is at a full capacity: Publish availability for the location. Do not allocate orders to that location. To achieve this, “Exclude inventory from facilities at full capacity” is not set and thereby availability is published and location is also considered for allocation. Retailers may still want to publish the availability (and show the products in the catalog) but prevent any allocation from the location(s) running at full capacity. Allocation from locations that are running at full capacity are prevented by setting the "Override capacity : Consider Capacity" option. Fulfillment Optimization: Promising Strategies - Inventory Reapportionment When inventory is constrained, it is promised to customer orders which have the highest priority, while the lowest priority orders are left with no inventory. This model does not always work well for replenishment or wholesale orders, wherein a retailer may want to distribute inventory more evenly across stores or customers. Reapportionment is a new allocation strategy which evenly distributes supply across all order lines by using Hamilton's Method of apportionment. Reapportionment can be enabled for a set of orders by using order type or other filter criteria. Only on hand inventory at Distribution Centers can be reapportioned; reapportioning inventory using an ATC view or future inventory is not supported. Reapportionment must be run in batch mode and can be scheduled in the Fulfillment Optimization UI. Reapportionment can be used in conjunction with the immediate allocation or batch allocation services. If immediate allocation is used, inventory is reserved upon order creation and then later reapportioned. If batch allocation is used, then inventory is reserved during batch allocation and then reapportioned when the reapportionment scheduler runs. Pullback & Transfer orders – Over shipment Merchandising & Planning teams will plan to pullback inventory from the stores and return to DCs at end of season, as new products are launched or when product sales expected to be lower. Similarly, when inventory forecasts are above or below plan at particular stores, inventory is transferred between stores. Both these orders are shipping inventory or moving inventory from store to store, or store to DC. For Pullback and Transfer orders, stores typically want to clear the available inventory. Due to inventory mismatch – stores may end up picking, packing and shipping more than the order quantity. This enhancement is to support over pick, over pack and over shipment of Orders. Inventory Supply User Interface: Reset Inventory in Error Supply record(s) can be errored out when the fulfillment system is not able to fulfill the order due to inventory -- such as an inventory mismatch. The inventory supply is marked as “In Error” to ensure demands are not allocated to a location where the inventory supply picture is incorrect and inventory does not exist.  Inventory mismatch between the systems is typically resolved by regular inventory syncs. As part of sync, quantity may be updated with the latest information and errors can be reset by setting the "ResetError" to True. As per current sync framework – adjustment events are created internally for the supply record(s) where there is a quantity mismatch between the systems. But for supply record(s) with no quantity mismatch, adjustment events are not created and the error doesn't get reset. As part of this feature, users with the appropriate permissions can reset the inventory error(s) from Inventory Supply UI. Users can select multiple supply record(s) and click on "Reset Error" to remove the error from inventory supply record(s). Orders User Interface: Excel Upload Option Retailers typically use Merchandise Planning System (MPS) to plan and manage Pullback or Transfer Orders; however, retailers that do not own merchandise planning system may handle this process manually by using Excel and various data sources/ data in the enterprise data warehouse. As part of this release, a new option to upload orders using Excel format is available in the Orders UI. Using this option, merchandising and planning teams can create or update orders manually using an Excel spreadsheet and view upload progress and list of uploaded orders. Large Order As part of this feature, Manhattan Active Omni supports Retail Orders with 1000 lines. Note: There are no changes to Customer Order flow, which still supports 120 lines. Customer Engagement Automatic Case Creation for Order Delay When orders are delayed during fulfillment, retailers would like to take a proactive approach to resolve the issue before it becomes apparent to the customer. With this new feature, milestones may be configured to trigger case creation automatically in the event of an order delay. CSR teams may then monitor the case queue to manage assignments and determine which orders need to be investigated. Virtual Assistant Returns with Alexa Traditionally, returning an item to a retailer usually involves visiting a website, a store, or calling customer service. In CE, initiating a return is as easy as asking an Alexa virtual assistant device using your voice. This features allows a customer to return their latest order with voice, which in turn initiates the return and emails a shipping label to the customer. It also confirms the refund amount that can be expected upon receipt of the return. Appeasement Threshold Limits for User Roles CSRs often give appeasements to customers in situations where the customer is not happy or when a significant mistake has been made on an order; however, Tier 1 CSRs with less experience may not be able to determine how much of an appeasement is appropriate and therefore CSR Managers and Administrators may want to control how much Tier 1 CSRs can provide. As part of this feature, administrators can configure appeasement thresholds by user role, which limits the maximum amount that CSRs may give as an appeasement. Drill Down Case Metrics and Case Filtering by URL Parameters CSRs use their dashboard to prioritize open case work. As part of this feature, CSRs may now click on dashboard metrics to quickly navigate to the Case List with the cases already filtered to the metric query. CSRs may also save Case Filters as browser bookmarks to quickly access commonly used quick or saved filters. Finally, external systems may access the case list using URL parameters to pre-filter the case list. Configure Payment Updates to Customer Master by Payment Type During checkout in the Customer Service UI, CSRs are asked if they would like to update the saved payment methods on the customer's account. Previously, this allowed for the CSR to select either yes or no to save all payment types used on the order. Now administrator users can configure which Payment Types should get saved to the customer master as a part of this action. For example, if a retailer does not want to save Gift Cards to customer accounts but would like to provide the option to save Credit Cards, the administrator excludes Gift Cards from the configuration and the CSR will now see only the Credit Card used on the order as an option to save to the customer account. Extended Attribute Support on Return Event The Return Event interface now supports extended attributes which allows downstream systems to pass additional information as part of a return and save the information to the return order. Point of Sale Promotion Suggestions In order to provide easy up-selling / cross selling capability, Active Omni promo engine provides  the information on appropriate promotions, the store associate can use to service the customer.  It also helps the customer to get maximum benefit off of the deal.  This happens at the time of check-out process, where in application evaluates the items in the cart and figures out anything missing to make it eligible for the promotion.  Alternately, user can get to view this from the more menu, where in the number of suggestions procured is displayed.  System provides the attributes based on Type of promotion and the Qualifier.  Retailer can choose to prompt the suggestion on individual Promotion deal configuration. Shipping Promotions Retailers at times will offer various shipping promotions, such as free or discounted shipping on orders to entice customers to place orders.  This feature allows the retailer to configure shipping promotions and apply them to the fulfillment groups. Shipping deals are based on a shipping fulfillment groups subtotal.  Qualifiers for these deals can be: spend X amount or buy anything. The benefit of these deals can be configured by the retailer.  Benefits can be: a percentage off, an amount off, or free shipping. Benefits can also be for a specific delivery service or multiple services. Retailers can also choose to set pre-emptive suggestions for shipping promotions. Product Catalog - Filter Unavailable Items Retailers may not want items to display in the catalog or item search if they are not currently available in inventory. A configuration has been added to hide unavailable items. If the configuration is set to true, then any item that is unavailable on the load of the product catalog or global item search will not be shown to the user. If an item is unavailable in the catalog, the user can still sell the item to the customer via barcode entry or quick scan of the item within the CART screen. Payment Reconciliation Retailers can now handle erroneous payment transactions on customer cards using the payment reconciliation. There may be instances where certain transactions are abandoned in the middle of payment and the retailer would not know if the customer was actually charged. To handle this, POS will log all payment transaction requests made to the gateway before the call is made and includes the status of each payment transaction. Retailers can track erroneous payments through the log status and reconcile these payments back to customers during the store close process. Note: To use the payment reconciliation solution, it will be necessary to implement an end of day job to include the reconciliation wrapper service call. Coupons Two new configurations have been added to the promotion configurator when coupons are required as part of the deal: Coupon Max Redemption - this configuration allows the retailer to restrict the number of time the same coupon can be added to a transaction. Coupon Use Drives Promo - the deal can only be applied the same number of times it is presented within the transaction. Appointment and Task Calendar A configuration has been added to allow retailers to use durations when creating new, or editing appointments or tasks within the application. If duration is used, the user will need to set the start date/time and select a duration.  The end time of the appointment or task will be automatically calculated. Customer Activation When a user chooses to add a new customer using the quick add form, they now have the ability to activate the customer to immediately begin working with them or automatically have them applied to an order. Customer Loyalty Emoji Retailers can now configure emoji for each loyalty status. The emoji icons will be displayed on the customer screen and cart screen. When the customer is activated, an emoji icon can help associates understand and cater to customers better. By default, emoji are configured for each loyalty status, which can be changed based on the retailer's requirements. Back-office Variance If enabled, users will be asked to confirm any variances while performing till reconcile or store close. The confirmation for variance will be repeated based on configuration and only after confirmation is accepted that the transaction is processed. Pickup at Store and Auto-complete Suggestion Searching in the Pickup at Store and Ship to Store screens has been extended to support city, state, and zip code. Associates can now use the customer-mentioned city or state to search a list of stores for Pickup at Store and Ship to Store. Automatic suggestions are presented for the city/state as the user begins typing in the search field. This auto-complete feature helps ensure users submit valid city/state entries to fetch the best results. Apply Sales Associates Retailers now have the ability to search sales associates across all stores and link them to a transaction/items for commission. This is controlled by a flag and can be set to restrict the search to a specific store or across all stores. Amount Discount Calculation This feature enables a manual discount amount to be applied at the line or unit level.  It is configurable and the discount is recalculated whenever the quantity is updated. Store Inventory & Fulfillment Pick to Slot Pick to slot enables store associates to consolidate items of an order as they are being picked. Slots are assigned to each order during picklist generation. During picking, the system guides associates to place items in the correct slots. Pick to slot offers the following capabilities: Pickers are instructed to place the items into a particular slot as they pick When associates complete picking, items of the order gets consolidated into the respective slots Packing /Staging process is made simple by taking the items from the slots to complete packing /staging process Slot Id can be numbered as 1,2,3 or named A, B, C as per configuration. The number of slots per pick cart can also be configured. Pullbacks and Transfers Associates can now process pullback and transfer orders.  Pullbacks are orders intended to return inventory to the DC and often used for end-of-season adjustments.  Transfers are orders sent from one store location to another store location to replenish the receiving store's inventory, or to re-balance inventory across store locations.  The orders are initiated from OM and processed in Store. Picking for both pullback and transfer orders is performed offline.  You can print the picklist to help with order picking. Configuration is provided to define how the picklist should be grouped and sorted.  Packing for pullback and transfer orders is also performed online.  The packing task can be reassigned to another associate as needed. The configuration in "Application Configuration / Manage Store Fulfillment Configuration / Store Fulfillment Parameters" is used to specify the order types corresponding to pullbacks and transfers.  You must ensure the values entered for those order types match what is configured for OM. Cloud Framework Simplified Configuration Updates Users of a parent organization can now update configurations of their child organizations for which they have access. This allows a user to manage configurations for multiple organizations without having to log in to each organization. Configuration Director RESTful APIs are now available to move configurations of an organization from one environment to another. The configurations of all or the specific components can be exported and stored in a local storage or cloud storage like Amazon's S3. These can further be imported into the same organization in another environment. The import can be restricted to one or more components. Additionally, configurations of an organization in two different environments can be compared using their exports. The comparison results are uploaded to either local storage or remote cloud storage locations. The released version of Configuration Director does not include a UI to perform the export, import, or a comparison functions. They can only be performed through RESTful APIs. Also, the configurations cannot be moved from one organization to another. Store Configuration Override This feature provides ability to configure and manage store over-ridable profile purpose data at the location, and store the profile type using the Omni façade UI.  Users with the appropriate permissions are now able to manage data for location over-ridable entities, such as Store Fulfillment Configuration, Carriers, etc.  Users can also view the level (organization, location or store profile type) at which the configuration is being managed. Store UI: Branded Background Image This feature enables customization of the image on the store UI landing page.