# Release 23.4

**Permalink:** release-23.4
**Path:** Home/Release Notes/Manhattan Active® Omni/2023/Release 23.4
**Content Length:** 66,066 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:52:03.024622

---

Home››Release Notes››Manhattan Active® Omni››2023 ››Release 23.4 Manhattan Active® Omni Release Notes 23.4 Release Date: 10/6/2023 Order ManagementEnterprise InventoryShop by Store and Get Availability by StyleAlternate Store AvailabilityReceiving - Inventory Availability DelayAvailability Sync Schedule – Time ZoneStore Initiated Transfer - Remove Packed Units from AvailabilityDeveloper DocumentationOrder SellingAdyen Integration for Payment ProcessingAuthorize Payment on Release for Pre-OrdersCurrency RoundingApply Base Shipping & Handling (S&H) Promotions for Shipping Charges Calculated from an External SystemOrder Configuration UI ImprovementsOrder FulfillmentKit Item DefinitionCustomer-Driven Shipping Address Change: Invoke Fraud CheckCustomer-Driven Shipping Address Change: Write Off TaxCustomer-Driven Fulfillment for Subset of LocationsLate Order CancelationDigital Self-ServicePrinter-less Returns with UPSPayment EnhancementsReturn & Exchange EnhancementsHeader MenuContact CenterModernized Returns User Interface (UI)Customer Service Home Screen RefreshPreview Refunds for Customer Order EditsOrder Line Filter on Additional ScreensPayment-Based Promotions in Contact Center Orders UI Usability ImprovementsApply Tax Exemption on Fulfilled OrdersAppeasements for Order Header and Order LineCustomer EngagementDisplay Category and Subcategory on the Interaction Wrap Up PanelPoint of SalePOS Order SellingPOS Payment using Adyen Integration for Payment ProcessingCapturing LocationID during New Customer Add via POSCapturing Receipt email Address for Guest CustomersPost Receipt as PDF dataOrder DepositsAllow Promo Proration independently for Multiple RedemptionsOrder and Orderline Promotional Attributes and Extended AttributesPOS App ReportingReporting Framework and POS Z ReportResilient Cloud for POSOnline Application - Ability to Retry Cloud Connection when Offline Condition is DetectedOffline Application - Ability to Dismiss Online Alert Switch from the Offline App for Period of TimeResilient Cloud ("Edge") Server - Improved ability to detect Network/Cloud AvailabilityStore CommonNetwork Status on IT Health DashboardAdminDeep Link to Order Summary ScreenStore Inventory & Fulfillment (SIF)Store Order FulfillmentFacility Account Configuration UIsStore Inventory ManagementStore-Initiated Transfer - Remove Packed Units from AvailabilityHandheld RFID - Store ReplenishmentOverhead RFID - ReceivingExternal OMS IntegrationStore CommonRFID - Tag-Based Return SupportDeveloper DocumentationDevice and OS Support Order Management Enterprise Inventory Shop by Store and Get Availability by Style The release introduces two new APIs that allow digital channels to retrieve availability by style for multiple styles at once, as well as retrieve a list of available colors for each style at the request. The Get Product List Availability API returns style availability across all locations, while the Get Store Product List Availability API returns style availability for one location (Shop By Store). This enables digital channels to seamlessly make real-time requests to Manhattan Active® Omni and display the style availability and style-color availability directly on the Product List Page. Note: This feature is controlled by a behavior change configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Shop By Store and Get Availability by Style Shop By Store and Get Availability by Style Configuration Alternate Store Availability Drive additional conversion by displaying alternate nearby store availability when the customers’ preferred store is out of stock. Availability APIs have been enhanced to return availability for all locations within the defined radius of the preferred store. Promising APIs have been enhanced to return availability for the closest location if the preferred store is out of stock. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Alternate Store Availability Alternate Store Availability Configuration Alternate Store Pickup Dates Receiving - Inventory Availability Delay Store inventory can now automatically be hidden from selling channels for a period of time after it is received to give the store time to unpack the products. This also allows retailers to stock hot styles for in-store sales before being exposed to selling channels or to-hold early-arriving season products from being exposed to selling channels. Configuration is added to prevent inventory from being available online for a certain number of hours after being received. This delay can be configured for an item/location combination, certain item, certain location or all locations. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Store Receiving - Inventory Availability Delay Receiving - Inventory Availability Delay Receiving - Inventory Availability Delay Configuration Receiving - Inventory Availability Delay UI Availability Sync Schedule – Time Zone Availability Sync schedules are configured in the context of a time zone. Note:  This feature is automatically available to all customers by default. Related: Availability Sync Schedule - Time Zone Availability Sync Schedule - Time Zone Configuration Store Initiated Transfer - Remove Packed Units from Availability Store Initiated Transfer - Remove Packed Units from Availability Developer Documentation Integration guides have been added for publishing availability syncs and publishing availability alerts and can be accessed at https://developer.manh.com. Order Selling Adyen Integration for Payment Processing Adyen integration seamlessly comes pre-configured with Manhattan Active® Omni, extending its capabilities to handle various payment scenarios.This includes the processing of payments originating from external systems such as e-commerce, Point of Sale, Customer Service, and Digital Self Service. It supports a wide range of payment methods, including credit, debit, and gift cards, and offers the flexibility to incorporate additional payment types or custom processing logic. Note: This feature is controlled by configuration when using Adyen as a payment provider. Related: Adyen Payment Integration Adyen Integration for Payment Processing Configuration Authorize Payment on Release for Pre-Orders For pre-orders or other items with long lead times, it can take months between order capture and when the product gets shipped. Typically, the system ensures a valid authorization is always held, which leads to re-authorizing many times over this long lead time. However, authorization is only needed when we start the product. Manhattan Order Management can now delay the re-authorization until release to ensure we are not re-authorizing unnecessarily. This is driven at the order level and can be leveraged for orders that are authorized up front and should not be re-authorized until the unit(s) are eligible for release, or orders that are not authorized up front and should only attempt authorization when they are eligible for release. Note:  This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Order Release - Authorize Payment On Release Payment - Authorize Payment on Release for Pre-Orders Authorize Payment on Release for Pre-Orders Configuration Currency Rounding Retailers can now configure to round down the tax decimals once per invoice as per the new Japan tax laws. This feature is applicable only to the currency code JPY. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related Currency Rounding Currency Rounding Configuration Apply Base Shipping & Handling (S&H) Promotions for Shipping Charges Calculated from an External System S&H charges can now be extended or done via an external S&H calculator while using the Manhattan Active® Omni Promotions engine for S&H promotions. Previously, if the S&H charge calculation needed to be extended or done via an external S&H calculator, the S&H promotion calculation had to be extended in conjunction. Note: This feature is controlled by a user exit implementation. Related: Shipping and Handling Order Configuration UI Improvements As part of ongoing enhancements of the Order Configuration UI, this release introduces the following new features aimed at optimizing the customer experience. Font normalization to ensure a consistent and appealing visual experience for the users. Streamlined display of Email/Text Message templates in the dropdown for each modification type in the Modification Rules UI; Now, only the relevant emails and texts are displayed for a given modification type. Ensure that the correct publish email/text templates are mapped to the corresponding modification types. For example: The "Customer Initiated Cancel Line" modification type should always map to the "Customer Cancelation" template. The "System Initiated Cancel Line" modification type should always map to the "System Cancelation" template. Email and Text template’s descriptions have been updated to more meaningful descriptions based on their related functionality. Order Configuration UI performance boost to reduce loading time. Note: This feature is automatically enabled for all customers when switching to the active release ID (2023-09). If any customers do not wish to upgrade to the latest release, but want access to the new Order configuration UI, they can enable the "Order Config UI Improvements" behavior change. Please refer to the behavior change document here for additional information on this purpose. Related: Order Configuration Order Fulfillment Kit Item Definition A list of component items and quantities can now be defined for a parent kit item. When an order line with the parent item is added or edited, the component items are updated in the corresponding ratios. Note: This feature is automatically available to all customers by default. Related: Kit Items Customer-Driven Shipping Address Change: Invoke Fraud Check When a customer or agent updates a shipping address after an order has been released, a fraud check can be done in the same way that it is done before an order is released. Depending on the fraud response, the address can be updated or the line(s) cancelled in case of fraud detection. This is available for address updates in the Contact Center and Digital Self-Service. Note: This feature is controlled by a user exit implementation. Related: Change Shipping Address Customer-Driven Shipping Address Change: Write Off Tax This feature allows retailers to automatically write off any additional tax resulting from a shipping address change initiated by the customer post release. For example, if a customer changes their address from Atlanta to New York and owes $0.34 in tax, this feature can write off the $0.34 so the customer owes nothing, but the retailer's tax ledger is accurate. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Change Shipping Address Customer-Driven Shipping Address Change: Write Off Tax Customer-Driven Shipping Address Change: Write Off Tax Configuration Customer-Driven Fulfillment for Subset of Locations Customers with Digital Self-Service and Contact Center agents can now see if an item is eligible for address change or cancelation before they select the item. This is to support scenarios where a retailer may use Manhattan Active® Omni Store Fulfillment and can support late order updates for items fulfilled from store, but their warehouse management system might not be able to support these updates. Related: Customer-Driven Fulfillment - Eligibility for Updates Customer-Driven Fulfillment for Subset of Locations - WM/Store Integration Note: This feature is automatically available to all customers by default. Late Order Cancelation Contact center agents can now request post-release cancelation at the order header level. The order is eligible for cancelation if all lines/units in the order are eligible for cancelation. Related: Late Order Cancellation Note: This feature is automatically available to all customers by default. Digital Self-Service Printer-less Returns with UPS The Digital Self Service printer-less returns feature is enhanced to now support UPS's label-only drop-offs in addition to FedEx’s QR code no-label returns. With this feature, retailers can use UPS to initiate returns without having to print a shipping label. Instead, a QR code is created. The customers can bring their packaged returned goods to a UPS location and the associate will provide a shipment label after scanning the QR code. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Printer-less Returns Printer-less Returns Configuration Payment Enhancements Digital Self-Service is enhanced to include the following: Adyen payment gateway support: Adyen is now supported as an out-of-the-box payment gateway, enabling retailers to configure it for Digital Self-Service payment flows such as payment recovery, Pay by Link, returns and exchanges. Note: This feature is automatically available to all customers by default. Support multiple payment types and payment gateways: With this new feature, the customers can now choose different payment types, and a different payment gateway for each payment type, if necessary. For example, a private label credit card might use one gateway, while other payment types use a different gateway. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Multiple Payment Gateways Multiple Payment Gateways Configuration Payment Resolution in Digital Self Service Payment Capture - Exchanges Digital Self-Service Pay by Link Return & Exchange Enhancements The Digital Self-Service return flow has been updated to include the enhancements below: Multiple return labels: Retailers can now define the number of return labels they need for each return order, when they are returning more than one order line/quantity. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Exchange delivery date: As part of the return creation process, Digital Self Service now displays an estimated delivery date on the preview and confirmation pages when available. Note: This feature is automatically available to all customers by default. Pay by link: Pay by Link can now be enabled when Digital Self Service returns and exchange orders result in a payment due from the customer. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Return Labels Multiple Return Labels Configuration Exchange - Delivery Date Exchange - Pay by Link Configuration Header Menu Retailers can now configure menu options with associated links, alongside the feature page logo, to align the Digital Self Service UI more closely with the website experience. Furthermore, alignment options are available for the placement of the header menu. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Header Menu Configuration Contact Center Modernized Returns User Interface (UI) The Create Return and Exchange UIs in the Contact Center have been updated with a new look and feel, efficient flow, and optimized data layout. All existing functionalities remain as-is. The new UI provides an additional capability to have both the same style and new style exchanges in the same order, which was not possible earlier. Note: This feature is controlled by a behavior change, "OM - New Contact Center Returns Experience", which will be automatically enabled in February 2024. Customers can manually enable the feature through configuration before February 2024.  Refer to the behavior change document here for additional information on this process. Related: Create Return Orders Create Exchange Orders Customer Service Home Screen Refresh The Customer Service Home Screen has been refreshed with a new background image, stylized search options and the removal of unnecessary elements, such as the date component. In addition, a configuration value has been added, so that organizations can provide a custom background that fits their branding. Note: This feature is automatically available to all customers by default. Related: Customer Service Home Screen Overview Customer Service Home Screen Configuration Preview Refunds for Customer Order Edits Contact center agents can now preview the refund amount and the refund payment method before the refund actually gets processed. This allows contact center agents to let the customer know their refund amount and payment method. They may also toggle between a gift card and the original credit card payment method for the refund. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is not enabled by default. Related: Preview Refunds for Customer Order Edits Preview Refunds for Customer Order Edits Configuration Order Line Filter on Additional Screens Agents can now quickly find order lines on a large order by using the new filter on the Order Status, Customer Transaction, Exchange Status, and Return Status screens. Users can filter for a subset of lines using order line number, item ID, item short description, ETA, shipping method, and status. Note: This feature is controlled by Grant/Resource. Related: Using the Order Line Filter UI Resources Payment-Based Promotions in Contact Center Payment-based promotions can now be used in the Contact Center. The Manhattan Active® Omni promotions engine supports a payment-based promotion, such as 10% if you pay with a Private Label Credit Card. When a user selects a payment type configured for promotion, the discount is automatically applied and visible to the agent. Depending on the selected payment method, the discounted amount is displayed before the payment transaction is processed to: Ensure that the payment is processed accurately for the correct amount based on the selected payment method. Allow the agent to confirm the revised order total with the customer before finalizing the transaction. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is not enabled by default. Related: Payment Based Promotions in Contact Center Payment Promotion Process Payment Promotion Configuration Preview Payment Based Promotions using Cart Orders UI Usability Improvements The below improvements are added to enable users to quickly and efficiently use the Order List and Order Line List UIs: Display all the related orders in the Order Details UI and once the user selects a particular order, the relevant order details are loaded. Enhanced existing filter attributes to include filtering with order-level attributes like Order Type and Payment Status on the Order Lines UI. An icon to clear orders/order lines is selected across other pages rather than refreshing the screen and reloading pages. Optionally retain search criteria when switching orgs to avoid reentering the same filter criteria. Note: This feature is automatically available to all customers by default. Related: Order/Order Line List Apply Tax Exemption on Fulfilled Orders The tax exemption feature now enables the contact center agent to apply for a tax-exempt ID on fulfilled orders. Order taxes are recalculated based on the tax-exempt ID and a refund is issued to the customer for the originally charged taxes. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Tax Exemption in Contact Center Tax Exemption Configuration Appeasements for Order Header and Order Line Retailers can now choose to allow agents to apply appeasements on orders only at the order header level or only at the order line level or both. Note: This feature is controlled by Grant/Resource. Related: Appeasements UI Resources Customer Engagement Display Category and Subcategory on the Interaction Wrap Up Panel Contact center users can capture the case category and subcategory on the interaction wrap up panel for every interaction so that they can quickly capture details of where agents are spending their time. Note: This feature is controlled by Change in Behavior, "OM - Category & Subcategory for Interaction Wrapup". Refer to the behavior change document here for additional information on this process. When this feature is enabled, the category and subcategory columns will replace the existing ‘Reason’ drop-down in the interaction wrap up panel. Related: Interaction Creation Point of Sale POS Order Selling POS Payment using Adyen Integration for Payment Processing Adyen integration seamlessly comes pre-configured with Manhattan Active® Omni, extending its capabilities to handle various payment scenarios.  Out of base POS can now be configured to use Adyen as the payment gateway for electronic payments (credit, debit, and gift card).  The POS Adyen plug-in can use either Cloud (server to server) or Local (direct to device) strategy to communicate to Adyen. Note: This feature is controlled by configuration when using Adyen as a payment provider. Related: Configuration Capturing LocationID during New Customer Add via POS This will allow retailers to track from which store a customer record was originally added.  Some retailers provide store/associate incentives based on this activity, or, assign a 'home store' to customer records based on this. The new attribute customer>customerCreationLocation will be written to the customer record when the new customer record is created at POS. Note: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Capturing Receipt email Address for Guest Customers An Email Recipient field is added in the Receipt component which stores the email address captured on the Process Receipt screen. This is specifically added to capture the email address for customers. In the case of the existing customer, also, the email address is captured in this field. This email address is stored for reference and is not displayed anywhere in the POS system. If required, customers can retrieve this email address from the database. Note: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Process Post Receipt as PDF data In addition to the current ability to post raw receipt data to a queue, for retailers to generate their own receipt email, MAO POS now features the capability to post the receipt data as PDF. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Process Order Deposits POS will allow a customer to make partial payments on orders via a new Deposit function. Orders that only contain Omni items (shipping or BOPIS) items qualify for deposit. On the Order Summary screen, the user will apply a partial payment (deposit) to a qualifying order. In effect, the order can be confirmed with only partial payment and retrieved later. When the order is searched and retrieved later, the user can be informed that it is awaiting payment and from the Order Details screen, opt to go to the Order Summary screen and apply for another partial or full payment. Note: This feature is controlled by grant permission Related: Process UI Resources Allow Promo Proration independently for Multiple Redemptions Previously if the same BXGY type deal which is configured to PRORATE occurred more than once within the same order, the benefit amount prorated over all the players irrespective of the redemption instance.  For example, if Deal X causes 10.00 off based on qualifier A, target B, and 15.00 off qualifier C, target D, the 25.00 total would prorate over A, B, C, and D. If the new configuration is selected, the 10.00 and 15.00 in this example will prorate discretely - 10.00 over A,B and 15.00 over C,D. Mathematically, note that the customer receives 25.00 off either way.  This option just allows price presentation to be possibly less confusing, as in the event of a return. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Configuration Order and Orderline Promotional Attributes and Extended Attributes Promotion in MAO allows you to add customer and item extended attributes in the promo inclusion list, but the same was not true for orders. The application is enhanced to support order and order line extended attribute as promo qualifier inclusion. These attributes can either be base attributes or any extended attributes which are required to be configured as labels before using them. These labels will then be used for promotion qualifications. Note: Currently, exclusions are not supported for order and order line available types.  Also, all the labels are case-sensitive. For example - If you have configured CurrencyCode as USD in promotion inclusion and your order has CurrencyCode Usd, that order won't qualify for the promotion. The same applies to order line level promotions as well. Note: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Configuration POS App Reporting Reporting Framework and POS Z Report MAO-POS now features a framework to leverage Wiretap component to collect summary metrics on a schedule, and use these for reporting and dashboard-type display within the POS app. The POS end of day Z report is now available from the Backoffice - Reports menu. Note: The feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default as well as permissions. Related: Process Configuration UI Resources Resilient Cloud for POS Online Application - Ability to Retry Cloud Connection when Offline Condition is Detected The newest version of the Online POS Application allows the user to retry cloud connection if  the offline condition is auto-detected.   Previously, users could only close the online app, or, switch from an online to an offline app. Related: Process Note: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Offline Application - Ability to Dismiss Online Alert Switch from the Offline App for Period of Time The newest version of the Offline POS Application allows the user to postpone online switch alerting. This feature is enabled via POS Store Config>Store Common Config>"Online Switch Alert Dismiss Duration in Minutes" and by installing the 23.4 version of the Offline POS Application. It allows the user to configure offline POS to notify when the network is available at the conclusion of a transaction - as with current functionality - but with new ability to 'dismiss' the reminder for a duration configured via this setting - ex. setting of 30 = "no less than 30 minutes until the next reminder". Related: Process Configuration Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is enabled by default. Resilient Cloud ("Edge") Server - Improved ability to detect Network/Cloud Availability Previously, the Resilient Cloud "Edge" server recorded successful "network available" status based on one successful heartbeat exchange in the past 15 minutes, and checked this availability every 5 minutes. We have enhanced this feature to check using a more sophisticated strategy - "network available" is now not recorded as "success" unless 3 successful 30 heartbeat exchanges AND a simple network speed test (using file UPLOAD and DOWNLOAD) are all performed. As well, the test will be run more frequently. This will help ensure that an 'available' Cloud network is stable and with sufficient bandwidth to truly support switching from the Offline POS App to the Online POS App.  This is available with the 23.4 version of the Edge Server. Related: Process Note: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Store Common Network Status on IT Health Dashboard The Store IT Health Dashboard is enabled to display network status and the number of network failures as part of the network status board. Network Status will be set to FAILURE if any network connection attempt during an order fails, even if it later succeeds. The number of network failures will increase for every failure, including retries. The network status should be displayed on the Store Health Dashboard. Related: Process Note: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Admin Deep Link to Order Summary Screen A new API (getOrderEditsSummary) is available. When called, the user will be able to link to the POS Order Summary screen from another system (i.e. Call Center) to take payments (positive and negative) and print receipts. Note: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Process Store Inventory & Fulfillment (SIF) Store Order Fulfillment Facility Account Configuration UIs The Carrier Facility Accounts and the Carrier Upgraded Facility Accounts UIs are upgraded and offer enhanced filtering capabilities. Note: This feature is automatically available as part of the release and is controlled by permissions. Related: Master Data Guide UI resources Store Inventory Management Receiving - Inventory Availability Delay Store-Initiated Transfer - Remove Packed Units from Availability With this release, stores can prevent inventory from being made available to selling channels once it is packed for a store-initiated transfer. When this feature is enabled, inventory is added to a reservation as it is packed. A ship reservation outbound event is sent instead of the inventory supply event that is sent when this feature is disabled. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Store-Initiated Transfer Store-Initiated Transfer Configuration Handheld RFID - Store Replenishment Stores with physical RFID tag shielding can now automatically generate activities to replenish the front selling area by tracking inventory at the area or sublocation level within the store. A configuration defines the minimum number of units which should be present for an item in the store's selling area. If the inventory drops below this level and the item exists in the non-selling backroom area, a replenishment activity is created. Store associates use a new UI to view the list of items and quantities to replenish from the non-selling area to the selling area. Movements are completed using a handheld RFID reader. The Store Count process is also enhanced to support counting by sublocation. Note: The feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default as well as permissions. Related: Store Replenishment Store Replenishment Configuration Store RFID Store Count UI resources Overhead RFID - Receiving Receiving is enhanced to match new RFID tags that are read by overhead readers to expected package receipts. Matched packages are pre-loaded on the Receiving UI for store associates to review and confirm receipt. Handheld RFID readers can be used to capture any tags that were not detected by the overhead reader. Note: This feature is automatically available as part of the release. Related: Receiving Store RFID External OMS Integration When Store Inventory Management is implemented with an external Order Management System (OMS), inventory updates can now be sent to Manhattan Active Inventory when pickup, shipment and pullback orders are fulfilled. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Shipping Shipping Configuration Confirm Pickup Confirm Pickup Configuration Pullbacks & Transfers Pullbacks & Transfers Configuration Store Common RFID - Tag-Based Return Support External Point of Sale (POS) applications can now lookup customer orders using RFID tag data for return processing. Manhattan Active Omni returns the order number for each RFID tag so that the calling application can proceed with the return creation process. Orders which were fulfilled or sold from RFID-enabled stores are eligible for lookup. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Store RFID Store RFID Configuration Developer Documentation API documentation to create store replenishments and to configure stores for pick path optimization has been added. A guide has also been added for cancelling driver requests when a same day delivery order is cancelled. This documentation is available at https://developer.manh.com. Device and OS Support The Store application is now certified on iOS/iPadOS 17 and with the Zebra RFD40 handheld RFID reader. For a full list of supported devices and operating systems, refer to the Certified Technology page.