# Release 22.1

**Permalink:** release-notes-22.1
**Path:** Home/Release Notes/Manhattan Active® Omni/2022/Release 22.1
**Content Length:** 32,399 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:52:27.103382

---

Home››Release Notes››Manhattan Active® Omni››2022 ››Release 22.1 Manhattan Active® Omni Release Notes 22.1 Release Date: 1.7.2022 Order ManagementEnterprise InventoryInteractive Inventory - Ability to Configure Processing Times by Item, Service Level and VASDelivery Date Performance Dashboard - Compare Promise Performance based on Predicted dates by Machine LearningConsider Location Receipt Time for Reservation Against Future InventoryDigital Self-ServiceRedesigned 'Extend Pickup Window' UIParking Information Mandatory for Curbside PickupDigital Self-Service UI Extensibility via ProActiveConvert BOPIS to Ship to Home for Store ShortsUpdate to Return/Exchange More FlowReal Time Order Cancellation ResponseOrder FulfillmentMachine Learning - Predict Earliest Dates (Ship & Delivery Dates)Order SellingCurrency Rounding: Chilean PesoPoint of Sale (POS)POS Order SellingMulti-CurrencyDuplicate Items on CartStore CommonHandling Login Failure on Home ScreenScreen LockStore Inventory & Fulfillment (SIF)Store Order FulfillmentFulfillment Scorecard Picking & Packing GoalsStore-Initiated Ship it InsteadDropdown LocalizationStore Inventory ManagementStore Initiated Transfer - Transfer TypesCycle Counts - View Item Details in Remaining CountsDrop-down LocalizationStore CommonDevice and OS SupportManhattan ProActive™Display data from External URL Data DictionaryAPI Documentation Improvements Extension Point Documentation Improvements Order Management Enterprise Inventory Interactive Inventory - Ability to Configure Processing Times by Item, Service Level and VAS Customers can now configure processing times at the following levels, which allows for committing more accurate earliest ship and delivery dates to the end customer. Item processing time Service level-based processing time for a specific location VAS-based processing time for a specific location These processing times are added to the existing location processing time while calculating the earliest ship dates for product and cart ATP calls. Related: Delivery Dates Services Delivery Date Performance Dashboard - Compare Promise Performance based on Predicted dates by Machine Learning Delivery Date Performance dashboard is enhanced to show comparison between promised performance based on calculated delivery date as per ANF rules vis-a-vis predicted delivery date as per a Machine Learning model trained on historical data. This would help the retailer to gauge “how predicted dates would impact their Delivery Performance metrics“. The dashboard displays a comparison based on a calculated delivery date and predicted delivery date: Comparison of percentage of shipments delivered on time, early, or late by location type Trend Comparison over the past 14 days of on time, early, or late shipments by shipping method Trend Comparison over the past 14 days of late shipments by location type and reason for delay Comparison of average lead time by shipping method Related: Delivery Date Performance Dashboard Consider Location Receipt Time for Reservation Against Future Inventory For an order with a requested delivery date, the latest ship date and latest release date are calculated during scheduling. For allocation against future supply, ETA of future supply should be less than the latest release date. Currently, backward scheduling only considers Location Processing Time for calculating the latest dates.  As part of this release, location receipt time will also be considered while computing the latest dates for units promised against future supply. Note: Location Receipt time is the time it takes location to receive future inventory before processing the order. This time is additional time, on top of location processing time. Related: How Scheduling Works Digital Self-Service Redesigned 'Extend Pickup Window' UI The Extended Pickup Window user interface has been streamlined to a one-click flow, instead of using a calendar selection. Upon loading the page, customers can view the proposed new pickup window, as calculated by configured business rules, and extend their pickup window with one click. No configuration is required; this feature is enabled by default. Related: Digital Self-Service Extend Pickup Window Parking Information Mandatory for Curbside Pickup Retailers can now configure vehicle/parking text inputs to be mandatory before customers can proceed with a curbside pickup. This feature is controlled by configuration. Related: Configuration to require parking information Digital Self-Service UI Extensibility via ProActive Digital Self-Service UI extension points can now be implemented using the ProActive extensibility framework. A select set of extension points are exposed in the Digital Self-Service UIs, including recent additions: Create Return UI: Label extensions (for example, to provide more detail about estimated refunds, refund calculations based on legal requirements, etc.) Returns Confirmation UI: Extension point provided in 'Next Steps' (for example, to link to a carrier website with nearby carrier locations) Related: Digital Self Service UI Extensibility Guide Convert BOPIS to Ship to Home for Store Shorts Customers can now convert their buy-online pick-up in store (BOPIS) items to shipments, if the store shorts the order during the picking process. This feature saves sales by reducing cancellations due to unavailability of items, while empowering customers with yet another option in Digital Self-Service. Customers can access the Digital Self-Service 'Ship It Instead' page from a pickup reminder email, text, or link from e-commerce. Once the customer selects 'Ship It Instead', Self-Service will make an availability call to confirm if the items are available to be shipped. Related: Ship It Instead Update to Return/Exchange More Flow When customers are creating a return order and the user selects "Return/Exchange More", the return order created will be moved from Pending Return status to Return Canceled status. If the user chooses to add more items and create a return again, a new return order will be created. Related: Editing Returns in Digital Self-Service Real Time Order Cancellation Response Customers will now see the real time status of a self-service order cancel request. When cancellation is successful or unsuccessful, the summary page will let the customer know and provide updated order totals based on what order lines were canceled. If the order is currently being picked at a store, the cancellation request will be sent and will be confirmed by email once it has been processed. Related: Self-Service Cancellation Flow Order Fulfillment Machine Learning - Predict Earliest Dates (Ship & Delivery Dates) Currently, the earliest ship and delivery dates provided to customers are computed heuristically. A heuristic model uses static data like location processing time and carrier transit time to compute ship and delivery dates, and so the estimated dates may not always be accurate. With this release, Manhattan Active® Omni leverages machine learning to find better accurate estimated ship and delivery date based on historical information. This helps to achieve the following: Enhanced/competitive functionality Improved ANF performance Increased Customer Service/Satisfaction Carrier Service Downgrading: Shipment cost savings Retailers can use the Machine Learning feature in two modes - passive and live. In passive mode, machine learning is leveraged to predict the earliest dates and retailers can evaluate the results of the model before displaying it to the end customers. Retailers can go live using the live mode and display the predicted ship and delivery dates to the end customers. Retailers can use the "Delivery Dates Dashboard' to view the performance of predicted dates and heuristic dates vs the actual ship and delivery dates. Once the retailers start using machine learning to predict dates, Delivery Dates Dashboard should be able to showcase insights into “How would ML dates bring our promised date closer to Actual Dates” Related: Predicted Earliest Scheduling Dates Order Selling Currency Rounding: Chilean Peso Manhattan Active® Omni now supports currency rounding for the Chilean Peso. With this feature, the system rounds off flat promotions, discounts, coupons, percentage-based appeasements, and non-informational taxes. Related: Currency Rounding Point of Sale (POS) POS Order Selling Multi-Currency When paying for an order in POS, retailers can now allow more than one currency to be accepted in the form of cash payment.  Retailers can configure as few as one alternate currency, to as many as they prefer across an organization.  Existing payment and Back Office configurations will be honored. Related: Payment Process Payment Config Backoffice Config - Till Reconcile Backoffice Config - Bank Deposit Duplicate Items on Cart There are instances where the users can accidentally scan or enter the same item multiple times, either for sales or return orders. Until now, they had no way of identifying any such mistake. But this feature provides an option to display a pop-up message to the user warning them about possible duplicate item entries in the Cart. Users can then either make the necessary corrections to the cart or continue with the current selection. Related: Process Config Store Common Handling Login Failure on Home Screen Upon logging into the store application, there can be some instances such as network glitch, poor connectivity and so on, which might result in a failure to get some required backend APIs, which causes the loading of store home screen improperly. It is not intuitive and leaves the user clueless. This feature will now give a better-informed message to the users along with providing an auto-retry mechanism during such failures to successfully show the home screen menus. Related: Login and Store Selection Process Screen Lock Users can now prevent unauthorized access of the store applications by securing the application with a screen lock. This feature enables the user to lock the Store application either automatically or manually without logging out of the application. Accessing the application back is made simple with the help of a login pin feature. Related: Screen Lock Feature Screen Lock Config and Enablement Store Inventory & Fulfillment (SIF) Store Order Fulfillment Fulfillment Scorecard Picking & Packing Goals The Fulfillment Scorecard UI now displays the store’s picking and packing rates in comparison to the configured store-level goals. The UI displays the store’s current rate against the goal in the form of a donut chart. The store’s rate is displayed in green color if it has met or exceeded the goal, and in red color if it is yet to meet the goal. Goals are defined in terms of units per hour. Note: This functionality is controlled by configuration and stays disabled by default. Related: Fulfillment Scorecard Fulfillment Scorecard Configuration Store-Initiated Ship it Instead Store associates can now convert pickup orders to ship-to-address orders to save a sale with regard to those customers who are unable to pick up their order. When contacting customers about orders which are nearing expiration, from the Contact Customer UI, based on permission, store associates have the option to convert the pickup order to a shipment. This option to convert is not displayed if any of the items on the fulfillment does not support ship-to-address (configured in Item UI/Selling Attributes.) The associate accepts the customer’s shipping address, and the ship-via attribute is updated from the configuration. Like the Customer-initiated Ship-it-Instead functionality, this triggers a push notification which notifies store associates that the order should be moved from the staging area to the packing area. A visual indication is also displayed on the Packing UI for the fulfillment. Note: This feature is controlled by configuration, which stays disabled by default. It is also controlled by permission. Related: Ship It Instead Ship It Instead Configuration Dropdown Localization To support multiple languages, localization has been added to the reason code, package type, carrier, and service level dropdowns in the Store Fulfillment UIs. Note: This functionality is enabled based on configuration. Related: Translation Guide Store Inventory Management Store Initiated Transfer - Transfer Types Retailers can now define transfer types which contain pre-configured transfer-related information for store associates to select when creating a store-initiated transfer. The store disposition (supply type), eligible location type(s) and package receipt type are configured for the transfer type, including the default carrier and service level. A maximum quantity to pack can also be specified. Retailers can define a default transfer type, and also configure the sequence where transfer types appear on the selection list. When an associate creates a store-initiated transfer, the default transfer type is pre-selected and can be changed based on permissions. The default carrier and service level can also be changed based on permissions. Associates can enter optional comments for the transfer. The inventory supply events which are generated contain the supply type and the transfer type. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which stays disabled by default. It is also controlled by permissions. Related: Store-Initiated Transfers Process Store-Initiated Transfers Configuration Cycle Counts - View Item Details in Remaining Counts Store associates can now view the details of an item that has not yet been counted. This mitigates the difficulties faced by the associates in locating the item and helps them to find additional information. Note: This feature is automatically enabled, and is controlled by permissions. Related: Cycle Count Process Drop-down Localization To support multiple languages, localization has been added to the reason code, package type, carrier, and service level drop-down in the Store Inventory UIs. Note: This functionality is enabled based on configuration. Related: Translation Guide Store Common Device and OS Support The Store application now supports iOS, iPadOS 15 and the iPad Mini 6. For a full list of supported devices and operating systems, please check the Certified Technology page. A device/OS certification and deprecation for the Store app has been established and can be found here. As of this release, the iPod Touch 6, iPhone 6 and the iPad Air (1st generation) devices are no longer certified. The usage of these devices will be supported for one year (until the 23.1 release), after which time they will be deprecated. Manhattan ProActive™ The Manhattan Active Omni 22.1 release includes enhancements to the ProActive extensibility tool, which improves extensibility capabilities and provides better access to API documentation. In this release, we have added a provision to register a trusted URL for custom User Interface calls and provided the ability to browse a data dictionary for Manhattan Active entities. In the API documentation section, we have made changes to better organize API documents as well as provide extension point documents in the open API specification. The following features are now available. Display data from External URL When a customer would like to call an external URL from within the Store application, they can now configure a trusted URL within ProActive. The Store application will then validate the URL is trusted and permit the user to view the page within the Store application. To configure this, an option called Register Trusted URL is available within the extension pack builder. Data Dictionary We have introduced a new link which enables customers to browse the data dictionary of Manhattan Active entities. The data dictionary is organized by the Manhattan Active application and then by component, you can select a component to view its entities. Clicking on an entity lets you download an excel sheet which provides the mapping of entity attributes with corresponding database tables and columns. The data dictionary is built dynamically based on the current structure of the entities, so, if extended attributes are added to an entity, the mapping for the extended attributes is also published. API Documentation Improvements We have enhanced the API documentation section by adding direct access to “Featured” APIs within a Manhattan Active Component. To access the API documentation, you will need to follow the same navigation as earlier to arrive at API documentation for a component. When available, we display a “Featured” API link which opens API documentation for frequently used APIs. For components which do not yet have featured APIs produced or to access all of the APIs in a component, you will find an “All” link which opens API documentation for all APIs for the component, including the featured APIs. In this release, we have a limited number of components with featured APIs. We expect to add more featured APIs in upcoming releases. Extension Point Documentation Improvements Extension point documents were previously HTML files. As part of this release, we have converted the documents to OpenAPI specification. Also, the extension point documents have been improved by adding additional content to help developers understand the behavior of the extension point and providing sample extension point JSONs where possible.