# Release 22.2

**Permalink:** release-22.2
**Path:** Home/Release Notes/Manhattan Active® Omni/2022/Release 22.2
**Content Length:** 37,634 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:52:24.169419

---

Home››Release Notes››Manhattan Active® Omni››2022 ››Release 22.2 Manhattan Active® Omni Release Notes 22.2 Release Date: 4.8.2022 Order ManagementLate Order Modifications: Change Shipping AddressChange of Shipping Address in Digital Self-ServiceEnterprise InventoryMachine Learning - Initiate Training via User InterfaceContinuous Allocation - Support for multiple OrganizationsContinuous Allocation - Complete Revaluation of Partially Allocated LinesRetail Order FulfillmentPromise/Delivery Dates: Using Shipping Costs, Inventory Levels and Rejection Rate as an Optimization FactorPromise/Delivery Dates: Using Transit Lanes to Validate Location EligibilityOrder SellingSave Return Label as a PDF Report Adjustments Against Pre-Paid OrdersDigital Self-ServiceShipment Tracking iFrames by LocaleEven Exchange Style Drop-downsStyling by OrganizationContact CenterTax Exemption in Contact CenterShipping RestrictionsPoint of Sale (POS)POS Order SellingImproved failure handling to minimize abandon ordersPOS SetupMobile Device N:1 Register/Payment Terminal SharingStore Inventory & Fulfillment (SIF)Store Order FulfillmentDynamic Picking Prioritization by Item Status, Price Status and InventoryLate Order Modification - Change Shipping AddressShip It Instead - Display Customer's Preferred Shipping AddressConfirm Pickup - Cancel all Linked FulfillmentsSelf-Assignment of TasksLocalization Support for TagsStore Inventory ManagementInventory Adjustments during ReceivingPullback/Transfers - Print Remaining ItemsCycle Counts - Open and Pending CountsReceiving UI ImprovementsSelf-Assignment of TasksStore-Initiated Transfer - Allow Destinations across OrganizationsInventory Adjustments - Require Reason CodeStore CommonCalendar WidgetRelaunch Camera Scan at an IntervalDevice and OS SupportManhattan ProActive™ Order Management Late Order Modifications: Change Shipping Address Change of Shipping Address in Digital Self-Service View the Change Shipping Address Demo In Digital Self-Service, customers can now update their shipping addresses when items have been released for fulfillment. The customer's shipping address on the shipment fulfillment line can now be modified until packing begins. If the address modification is requested after the package is created, the error message is sent in response. Note: This feature is automatically enabled as part of this release. Related: Change Shipping Address Enterprise Inventory Machine Learning - Initiate Training via User Interface Manhattan Active® Omni leverages machine learning to find more accurate estimated ship and delivery dates based on historical information. Retailers can use the Machine Learning feature in two modes - passive and live. In passive mode, machine learning predicts the earliest dates. Retailers can evaluate the results of the model before displaying it to customers. After reviewing the results, they switch to live mode to display predicted ship and delivery dates to customers. With this release, you can initiate the training of machine learning models via user interface and monitor the training progress and deployment status of the machine learning model. Related: Predict Promising with Machine Learning Continuous Allocation - Support for multiple Organizations Continuous Allocation evaluates fulfillment optimization in real time and ensures that allocated orders leverage the optimal supply at the fulfillment location and that backordered lines are reevaluated in real time. Continuous allocation is triggered when availability is changed by supply change events such as supply increase/decrease, ETA update, error set/reset, or demand change events like order create, update, or delete. With this release, continuous allocation will consider orders across organizations within the same active profile based on priority. This feature is automatically enabled as part of this release. Continuous Allocation - Complete Revaluation of Partially Allocated Lines Continuous allocation has been enhanced to ensure that all locations are considered for lines with partially backordered units. Previously, only the location used to partially allocate the line was considered. This feature is automatically enabled as part of this release. Related: Continuous Allocation Retail Order Fulfillment With this release, retailers can now leverage “Prioritization Tier” based Fulfillment Optimization to leverage additional sources of inventory to fulfill retail orders. Promise/Delivery Dates: Using Shipping Costs, Inventory Levels and Rejection Rate as an Optimization Factor Shipping cost, inventory levels, and rejection rate are now considered as optimization factors while computing the delivery date as part of the cart and product ATP calls. This allows retailers to promise dates based on all the optimization factors. Note: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Compute Delivery Dates - Process Flow Interactive Inventory Promise/Delivery Dates: Using Transit Lanes to Validate Location Eligibility Transit lanes will be considered while computing the delivery dates as part of the cart and product ATP calls. Any location that does not have a valid transit lane for the incoming service level and destination address will be considered ineligible for promising delivery dates. A promising configuration parameter will be used to control the transit lane check as part of the ATP calls. This feature is controlled by configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Compute Delivery Dates - Process Flow Interactive Inventory Order Selling Save Return Label as a PDF Manhattan Active® Omni now has the ability to support return labels in PDF format. Previously, PDF would be converted to JPEG, but with this release both formats will be supported. Note: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Return Label Process Flow Report Adjustments Against Pre-Paid Orders On pre-paid orders, where payment is settled before items are fulfilled, the retailer has a liability to the customer. When order updates such as cancellations and appeasements occur, and this liability amount changes, an outbound message can be published to record this transaction in the sales audit system. Note: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Prepaid Liability Digital Self-Service Shipment Tracking iFrames by Locale This feature provides the ability to pass the locale to the iFrame configuration, so that content relevant to that specific locale/language can be rendered. This is available on the Shipment Tracking UI. This feature is controlled by configuration which is disabled by default. Related: iFrames Based on Locale Even Exchange Style Drop-downs During exchange order creation, size and color drop-downs are now displayed only when additional sizes or colors are available. If an item does not have color or size options, those drop-downs are not displayed. Note: This feature is automatically enabled as part of this release. Related: Size and Color Drop-downs Styling by Organization Retailers can now style the Digital Self-Service pages uniquely by organization, instead of sharing one style across all organizations. This means a multi-brand organization can use the logo, fonts, and colors unique to each brand. This feature is controlled by configuration which is disabled by default. Related: How UI Theming Works Contact Center Tax Exemption in Contact Center Contact Center agents can now view, apply, and remove tax exemptions in the UI. This feature is controlled by configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Tax Exemption in Contact Center and Customer Engagement Shipping Restrictions Shipping restrictions can now be configured as either a soft validation or hard validation. If a soft validation is used, agents can view the warning and proceed with the order updates (e.g. California's Prop 65 warning). If a hard validation is used, the order line is put on hold and the shipping details must be corrected before the hold is removed. This feature is controlled by configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Shipping Restrictions Point of Sale (POS) POS Order Selling Improved failure handling to minimize abandon orders Current workflows that had failures with cash payment resulted in abandoned orders without any notifications in the UI. These types of failures needed better clarification for all Store users. With this new enhancement, workflows such as Sale, Returns, Post void, and Gift Card Cash Out involving paper-based payments have been improved with better failure messaging. The APIs "engageAndValidateCashDrawer", "updateTillAndDisengageCashDrawer", "Order/Save" for paper-based tenders now have a 'retry' mechanism available to users when errors occur.  Users can either retry or cancel the transaction. Upon cancelling, store users will see a message that transactions will be abandoned, followed by a prompt for confirmation.  This will provide more information to the user on how the error is handled and the next steps to be taken. In addition, all errors that occur across these APIs, including retry or cancel actions, will be recorded in critical events for further debugging purposes. Note: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Device Information POS Setup Mobile Device N:1 Register/Payment Terminal Sharing Mobile POS devices will no longer require a pre-paired configuration within the POS settings function.  Users can select, or scan, a mobile payment terminal from within the CART or Order Summary screens during a transaction. This will also allow users to easily connect to different payment terminals between transactions. If the desired payment terminal is in use, they can move to a different one to complete the customer order. This feature allows retailers to have multiple mobile registers, but with fewer shared payment terminals within their stores. Related: POS Simplified Device Registration Configuration Store Inventory & Fulfillment (SIF) Store Order Fulfillment Dynamic Picking Prioritization by Item Status, Price Status and Inventory Dynamic picking prioritization can now be configured to prioritize picking based on item status, price status and inventory levels. This allows retailers to ensure that orders with clearance items, high-priced items or items with a low inventory level are appropriately prioritized for store associates for picking. With this change, retailers can define any tag rules based on these attributes. Note: This functionality is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Picking Prioritization Late Order Modification - Change Shipping Address Refer to the Change Shipping Address feature in the Order Management section of this document. Ship It Instead - Display Customer's Preferred Shipping Address The customer's preferred shipping address is now defaulted on the UI when a store associate converts a pickup order to a shipment using store-initiated shipping instead of functionality. This allows the store associate to confirm the address without having to ask and a key enter it. Note: This functionality is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Store-initiated Ship it Instead Confirm Pickup - Cancel all Linked Fulfillments When a customer pickup order is fulfilled from various locations, store associates are now able to cancel all of the linked fulfillments with a single action from the Confirm Pickup and Curbside Pickup UIs. This eliminates the need for the associate to cancel each individual fulfillment. This feature is controlled by permission. Related: Confirm Pickup Process Store Fulfillment UI Resources Self-Assignment of Tasks When an associate reassigns a task to themselves, the Store application now directly navigates to the corresponding UI for the associate to complete the task. The type of picking task (pickup or shipment) is also now displayed on the Task Monitoring UI. Note: This functionality is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Task Monitoring Process Localization Support for Tags The Prepare Pickups and Prepare Shipments UIs now support displaying fulfillment tags in a localized language. Note: This capability is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Translation Guide Store Inventory Management Inventory Adjustments during Receiving Store associates can now report discrepancies between expected and actual inventory when receiving a receipt. When a discrepancy is found, associates can report how many units in the package are sellable, how many should be received against an exception store disposition (for example, damaged) and how many are missing. Based on permissions, store associates can manually enter minor exceptions using a "top down" approach, or can scan all items in the package using a "bottom up" approach. The ability to assign an exception disposition to all items in the package with a single action also exists. This functionality also allows a store associate to convert a package from package to item-level receiving on the fly, regardless of whether a variance exists. This functionality is supported for store replenishment packages which are being received at the package or item level. This functionality is controlled by a configuration/permissions and is disabled by default. Related: Receiving Process Receiving Configuration Store Inventory UI resources Pullback/Transfers - Print Remaining Items Store associates can now print a picklist for the items remaining to pack in a pullback/transfer order. This can be useful for stores which use paper-based picking to print the items that are left to pick. This functionality is controlled by permission. Related: Pullbacks & Transfers Process Store Inventory UI resources Cycle Counts - Open and Pending Counts A badge count is now displayed on the Cycle Count menu option to show the number of open and pending cycle counts that exist in the store. Note: This functionality is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Cycle Count Process Receiving UI Improvements Improvements are made to the Expected Packages UI to indicate if an expected package is late, display the total number of expected units, and increase readability of the package's receipt type. Note: This functionality is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Receiving Process Self-Assignment of Tasks When an associate reassigns a task to themselves, the Store application now directly navigates to the corresponding UI for the associate to complete the task. The type of picking task (pickup or shipment) is displayed on the Task Monitoring UI. Note: This functionality is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Task Monitoring Process Store-Initiated Transfer - Allow Destinations across Organizations Store associates can now create store-initiated transfers for a destination in another organization. This allows stores to send inventory to return DCs, suppliers or other stores across organizations. This functionality is available when store-initiated transfers are created using transfer types. This functionality is controlled by configuration, and is disabled by default. Related: Store Initiated Transfer Process Store Initiated Transfer Configuration Inventory Adjustments - Require Reason Code Retailers can now require associates to specify a reason code when performing a store inventory adjustment. Configuration defines for which adjustment types a reason code is mandatory. This functionality is controlled by configuration, and is disabled by default. Related: Adjust Store Inventory Process Adjust Store Inventory Configuration Store Common Calendar Widget A calendar UI widget replaces the date widget in several Store Inventory and Fulfillment UIs, including the Receiving, Completed Shipments, Inventory Audit and Order Detail UIs. Note: This functionality is automatically enabled as part of the release. Relaunch Camera Scan at an Interval Retailers can also now configure the application to automatically relaunch the camera scanner at configurable intervals. This aids in providing an ability to delay the relaunch to allow store associates to scan barcodes with the camera scanner at a comfortable pace. The time interval in milliseconds can be configured for each menu option. For instance, the associate can configure the time interval as 5000 ms for the cart menu and 3000 ms for the prepared pickups menu. Related: Store - Camera Scanner Device and OS Support The Store application now supports Android 11, as well as the Zebra TC52x device. For a full list of supported devices and operating systems, refer to Certified Technology page. Manhattan ProActive™ The 22.2 release of Manhattan Active Omni adds enhancements to the ProActive which further improve extensibility capabilities and continue to improve API (Application Programming Interface) documentation. First, ProActive is enhanced to deploy by specifying target Profile IDs. Second, visibility of payload data while developing backend extension point extensibility is added. Finally, we have further increased coverage of featured APIs documentation for certain APIs and Extension Points. Deploy by Profile IDs Starting with the 22.2 release, Extension Packs deployed by ProActive can be deployed only to target Profiles (currently, users choose a target organization to deploy). With this change, ProActive enables a capability to deploy the extension to one or more target profiles based on your organization’s extension management strategy. This gives you the flexibility to deploy one profile and share the extension across multiple organizations or to deploy a separate profile for each organization. For extensions that are already deployed and in-flight prior to this release, ProActive will automatically recognize that the extension was previously deployed for target organizations and will give a choice to users at the time of deployment of an updated version of the existing extension, to continue organization-based deployment or switch to the new profile-based deployment approach. It is important to note that even with the Organization-based extension deployment approach, the extension would finally be deployed to the profile used by the organization. Now, by allowing you to select the profile ID directly, you get greater flexibility to manage deployment of extensions. Data Sampling for API Extension Points The 22.2 release for ProActive enables the capability for you to enable and view data samples to aid with backend extension point development. With this feature, you can first deploy the backend extension point with data sampling enabled in the first version of the extension pack. Once the initial version of the extension is deployed, you can continue developing an updated version of the extension within ProActive with the aid of data samples from the extension points implemented by the extension pack. An initial deployment of the extension pack is required to be able to wire the extension point with the extension handler and turn on data sampling configuration in the microservices (or components) impacted by the extension. Once enabled, the data sampling feature provides end-to-end visibility of payloads generated by the extension point. So, you can view the actual payloads emitted by the extension point as well as the transformations, additions, and responses from other internal and external APIs participating in the implementation of the extension point. An extension pack can contain one more extension points, so you can view data samples for each to gain insights into data exchanges. Extensibility Documentation Improvements Use case documentation with sample payloads has been added for additional frequently used APIs and extension points. These can be accessed from the Featured APIs and Extension Points menus of the ProActive UI. An extensibility guide is made available to help customers understand with examples of how to build extensions using ProActive. Data Dictionary Data Dictionary is moved from the Developer Artifacts to Developer Documentation.