# Release Notes 23.4

**Permalink:** release-notes-23.4
**Content Length:** 4,685 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:47:48.165182

---

Home&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Release Notes&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;2023 ››Release Notes 23.4 Manhattan Active&reg; Allocation Release Notes 23.4 &nbsp; DC InventoryStyle Level Item The 23.4&nbsp; release of Manhattan Active Allocation is focused on ensuring Manhattan&rsquo;s allocation solution is even simpler to use while achieving maximum returns on inventory.&nbsp;&nbsp; The newest additions included in the 23.4 release of Manhattan Active Allocation improve the overall usability of several core allocation functions as well as simplify various configuration tasks. Some of the most significant features are summarized below. &nbsp; DC Inventory It is important to have visibility of available inventory at DCs and stores for effective inventory allocation. MA Allocation is enhanced to receive regular notifications&nbsp;about inventory updates from the inventory system. There are two different kinds of inventory updates. Change to the on-hand available inventory for an item. Notification of a new purchase order (PO) or advance shipment notice (ASN) at a DC. These updates will trigger the allocation process and compute the suggested allocation quantity as per the user-defined allocation strategy.&nbsp;Once the allocators and supervisors review and update the allocations, the retail orders from allocation&nbsp;are ready to be released to the external systems for executing the inventory allocation. On release, the allocation orders are sent to the inventory system. The&nbsp;inventory&nbsp;is reserved for the respective retail orders so that it is not available for other orders. The retail orders are also sent to the warehouse management system for executing the allocations. When the warehouse management system ships the orders, the available inventory and the inventory reservations are reconciled based on the inventory shipped and/or cancelled for the respective allocations. If there is any change to the available inventory, as a part of order update,&nbsp; it is again notified to MA Allocation via the inventory system. &nbsp; Related: DC Inventory&nbsp; &nbsp; Style Level Item As part of this release, style level items are supported. These&nbsp;are not available in the UI. Users&nbsp;will have to interface style records using Json. &nbsp; Sample json: &nbsp; Style Level Item json POST:{{url}}/item/api/item/style/save { &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&quot;StyleId&quot;: &quot;English-Navy&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&quot;Description&quot;: &quot;English-Navy&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&quot;ShortDescription&quot;: &quot;English-Navy&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&quot;SizeCategory&quot;: &quot;SizeProfileId_4&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&quot;ProductClass&quot;: &quot;Formals&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&quot;ProductSubClass&quot;: &quot;Tops&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&quot;DepartmentNumber&quot;: &quot;Mens&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&quot;Brand&quot;: &quot;EnglishNavy&quot;, &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&quot;StyleTemplate&quot;: { &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;StyleTemplateId&quot;: &quot;Default&quot; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;} } &nbsp;