# Release 22.4

**Permalink:** release-22.4-2
**Content Length:** 21,007 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:47:50.143017

---

Home&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Release Notes&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;2022 ››Release 22.4 &nbsp; Manhattan Active&reg; Allocation Release Notes 22.4 Release Date: 10/7/2022 &nbsp; KEY FEATURES:Combined Allocated Supplies UIAvailable Attributes and Rule Type Available AttributesProduct Hierarchies ImprovementsLabel TranslationRibbon Changes in Allocator ConsoleImport/Export Data Loader from Product Location Grade UIMonitoring Batch Processes Add Supply Type to Auto Submit-Approval rule attributesSaved Views on Metadata screensNew Configuration in Allocation Policy PhaseChanges to Sales By Fulfilment Type The 22.4 release of Manhattan Active Allocation is focused on ensuring Manhattan&rsquo;s allocation solution is even simpler to use while achieving maximum returns on inventory.&nbsp;&nbsp; The newest additions included in the 22.4 release of Manhattan Active Allocation improve the overall usability of several core allocation functions as well as simplify various configuration tasks. Some of the most significant features are summarized below. KEY FEATURES: &nbsp; Combined Allocated Supplies UI In this release, the four separate Suggested/Submitted/Approved/Rejected Allocation UIs that were previously accessible directly from the menu have been merged into a single Allocated Supplies UI, filterable by the supply status (e.g., suggested).&nbsp; On the filter panel, the number of allocated supplies is displayed next to each status.&nbsp; Multiple users may work as a team where they submit, approve, or reject allocations.&nbsp; From this combined UI, a user can find a particular supply without knowing its status.&nbsp; From the Allocators Console UI, when a user navigates to one of the Allocated Supplies (e.g., Suggested Allocation), the system displays the new Allocated Supplies UI with the filter pre-set to only show records in the requested status (e.g., suggested). The Allocation Maintenance UI, which is accessible from the Allocated Supplies UI, also displays the supply status.&nbsp; Unallocated Supplies remains as a separate UI and continues to have its own menu item as most of the allocation KPIs are not available for unallocated supplies.&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Available Attributes and Rule Type Available Attributes Previously, in the Allocation Policy, only primary product hierarchy attributes are available for rule attribute selections. Similarly, Auto Submit Approval only has a short, static list of supply attributes listed on the drop-down list.&nbsp; In this release, Allocation has added the following two framework UIs: Available Attributes and Rule Type Available Attributes.&nbsp; A user can now add attributes from product, supply, and extended entities from Allocation component to the rule attribute selections.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Related Available Attributes&nbsp; Rule Type Available Attributes&nbsp; &nbsp; Product Hierarchies Improvements Label Translation Product Hierarchy Levels in various UIs can now be translated to different terminologies, unique by client implementation.&nbsp; For instance, a client may want to call Department, Class, and Subclass as Year-Season, Gender, and Article Group.&nbsp; Previously, many UIs had a static drop-down list or a json format input field, which could not be translated.&nbsp; These fields have been replaced by a new type of drop-down list that allows for an override seed data to be configured in a translation entity.&nbsp; If the translation entity does not have any matching value, then the UI will fetch the field label from a default translation repository. &nbsp;Below are the affected UIs: &nbsp;Product Location Grade &nbsp;Product Location Phase Product Location Constraint Allocator Assignments Product Access Filter Size Profile Policy &nbsp; Related: Product Location Grade Product Location Constraint Product Location Phase Allocator Assignments &nbsp; Ribbon Changes in Allocator Console The application is enhanced with&nbsp;improvements to the Allocator Console screen. A toggle button is added in the ribbon section of allocator console to toggle between current season and future seasons KPI data. &nbsp; Current Season - This option is used to view the KPI data for product-locations in in-season and end of season phase from current season. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;This is the default view. Navigation is allowed only from the current season. Future Seasons - This option is used to view the KPI data for product-locations in pre-season phase from next seasons. &nbsp; &nbsp; Note: KPI navigation is only available for the current season. Related: Allocators Console &nbsp; Import/Export Data Loader from Product Location Grade UI Product Location Grade UI now supports asynchronous import/export data loader and its corresponding alert notifications.&nbsp; Using the Export Data Loader, a user can export all the data in all the pages that were returned from the filter on the UI into a spreadsheet (.csv). The user can use the same spreadsheet as a template for importing data into the system. When this Import Data Loader button is clicked, the user is presented with a modal where they can choose the file name and the location of the file to upload for import.&nbsp; If configured, the user can also choose to receive an alert when the export or import has been completed.&nbsp; &nbsp; Related: Product Location Grade &nbsp; Monitoring Batch Processes The ability to monitor job status of various background processes is now available on the Monitor Scheduled Jobs screen. The screen displays the job status, start and end date-time, and number of batches processed with failure and success counts. User can filter jobs based on Component Name, Job Type Id, Job Scheduled Id, &nbsp;Display Status, and other filters. &nbsp; &nbsp; Below are the batch processes which has been upgraded to use latest batch framework for monitoring. SizeProfileGeneration ClusterProfileGeneration SizeProfileClassification SizeProfilePrediction SupplyIndexSyncJob APLIndexSyncJob AllocationEngineScheduledJob TransferEngineScheduledJob Product Location Enrichment Model Metric Computation Scheduled Job Inventory SyncJob Add Supply Type to Auto Submit-Approval rule attributes New attribute&nbsp;supply.Supply Type has been added to&nbsp;the Auto&nbsp;Submit-Approval Criteria&nbsp;attributes for defining the conditions for Supply Type as ONHAND, PO, ASN, and OVERSTOCK. &nbsp; &nbsp; Saved Views on Metadata screens Each panel within the metadata screen now has a Saved View icon. This allows you to personalize your view of each panel. For example, product location: which columns to show, which columns to sort by, and whether a filter should be applied. This view can also be set as your default and shared with others.&nbsp; This allows you to have a personalized view of each panel that persists across logged-in sessions. &nbsp; &nbsp; Related: Saved View &nbsp; New Configuration in Allocation Policy Phase A new configuration is added to the Allocation Policy Phase screen to control minimums being applied when a size profile index is zero. This configuration can be used to ensure minimums do not increase need and RAQ for a size which is not carried in certain stores. &nbsp; &nbsp; Config Name: &lsquo;Set Need and RAQ to zero when Size Profile Index is zero&rsquo; &nbsp; Yes - Minimums are not applied and need is set to zero when a size profile index is zero No - Need calculated and minimums applied regardless of size profile index Related: Allocation Strategy &nbsp; Usability Enhancements &nbsp; Changes to Sales By Fulfilment Type Sales by fulfillment type charts will now display 8 weeks&nbsp;of data instead of the previously shown 13 weeks.&nbsp; &nbsp; This will show the most recent weeks&nbsp;useful for making business decisions without having to scroll in the charts. &nbsp; Related: Allocators Console