# Release 21.2

**Permalink:** release-21.2
**Content Length:** 7,286 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:47:57.228404

---

Home&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Release Notes&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;2021 ››Release 21.2 Manhattan Active&reg; Allocation Release Notes 21.2 &nbsp; Manhattan Active&reg; Allocation Release Notes 21.2Size Profile OptimizationRestrict Allocation based on Clearance/MarkdownAuto Approval &amp; ReleaseUI for Simple Method ConfigurationAllocation Maintenance for All SizesNeed Segmentation by Fulfillment AdjustmentsAllocation Maintenance - Export to ExcelMass Change AllocationModel Store and Model ProductProduct and Location HierarchiesMaster Data Changes Manhattan Active&reg; Allocation enables you to effectively distribute merchandise inventory to the stores by allowing&nbsp;flexibility to define the store needs as per your&nbsp;business requirements. The 21.2&nbsp;release of Manhattan Active Allocation delivers solution enhancements across our Omni-centric allocation capabilities including product &amp; location modeling, managing hierarchies, mass update of&nbsp;records, and automatic approvals for allocation requests. &nbsp; Size Profile Optimization Users can&nbsp;generate size profiles for styles or categories of products that summarize the relative sales of the&nbsp;various sizes. Allocation can use these size profiles&nbsp;and the current inventory at a location to automatically select the optimal combination of pre-packs to allocate to a store. &nbsp; Restrict Allocation based on Clearance/Markdown Inventory is not allocated to any product locations that are on markdown. A new attribute &lsquo;Markdown%&rsquo; is added to&nbsp;the Product Location page in the UI to indicate whether&nbsp;it is on markdown. &nbsp; Auto Approval &amp; Release Users can now create Auto Submit-Approval Policies which allow the&nbsp;allocations of supplies that meet certain criteria to&nbsp;be submitted or approved automatically.&nbsp; &nbsp; UI for Simple Method Configuration Users can now define need computation methods based on a single metric in the UI.&nbsp; The ability to create more complex methods using the text editor is still available.&nbsp; &nbsp; Allocation Maintenance for All Sizes Allocations for the same style-color but different sizes&nbsp;which are not in a pre-pack can now be reviewed, submitted, and approved together in Allocation Maintenance.&nbsp; &nbsp; Need Segmentation by Fulfillment Adjustments Fulfillment adjustments defined in the strategy add to the need quantity calculated by the method.&nbsp; Total need (retail need + fulfillment adjustments) can now be seen as a bar chart by retail/fulfillment type in View Metrics &gt; By Size and Color chart. &nbsp; Allocation Maintenance - Export to Excel Users can export the allocation results to excel.&nbsp;A new button is added to the Allocation Maintenance page. Clicking on this button will download a CSV file of allocation results. &nbsp; Mass Change Allocation Users can perform mass updates&nbsp;to the allocation quantities for multiple selected locations in a single action. A new button is added to the Allocation Maintenance screen. The following updates are supported: Add Subtract Replace Increase By (Percentage) Decrease By (Percentage) Minimum Maximum &nbsp; Model Store and Model Product Users can define model stores and model products for newly launched stores and products respectively. The metrics from the existing&nbsp;stores/products can be used by the engine to compute the need variable for allocating inventory to the new stores/products. Users can view these model metrics in the View Metrics window. &nbsp; Product and Location Hierarchies Users can create and edit the product and location hierarchies and the levels for these hierarchies. &nbsp; Master Data Changes Users can now create product locations at aggregate levels like style and style-color. This is supported only for styled products.&nbsp; Non-styled products&nbsp;have product locations at leaf level only. &nbsp;