# Release 23.3

**Permalink:** release-23.3
**Path:** Home/Release Notes/Manhattan Active® Omni/2023/Release 23.3
**Content Length:** 56,262 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:52:07.762567

---

Home››Release Notes››Manhattan Active® Omni››2023 ››Release 23.3 Manhattan Active® Omni Release Notes 23.3 Release Date: 7/7/2023 Manhattan Active® Omni Release Notes 23.3Order ManagementEnterprise InventoryAvailability by StyleGet the Maximum Available Quantity at a Single LocationCustomer Committed Delivery Date in the Release MessageIgnore Receipt Time During MergeRelease Cut-Off Time Grace PeriodContinuous Allocation - Lock Allocations Before Release Fulfillment Insights DashboardOrder SellingPrevent Shipment If Payment FailsAutomatic Write-OffsEmail Messages for Digital Goods FulfillmentBypass Remorse Period for POS Send SalesEligible Days for Refunding S&H ChargesReturn Age Based on Delivered DateColorado Retail Delivery FeePay by Link Reminder and Unconfirmed Orders CancelationOrder Configuration UI ImprovementsOrder FulfillmentCustomer Driven FulfillmentDigital Self-ServicePrinterless ReturnsStore ReturnsShipment Tracking Access Point Details with UPSContact Center Item Search EnhancementsWaiving Fees for Confirmed Return OrdersOrder Line FilterLarge Order Support for Contact CenterPay By Link Enhancements for Contact Center Stylized Customer Details Pop-upImproved Register Customer Pop-upCustomer EngagementContact Center Manager DashboardAuto-populate Order ID in Interaction Wrap-Up for Order Creation/EditsEnhance CSR Dashboard to Show Past Due Cases and Cases Assigned to My TeamCustomer Profile Extended Attribute AlignmentGeneralThai Language SupportLarge Order SupportDeveloper Portal AccessPoint of SaleOrder SellingReceipt LocalizationPay By LinkCalculate Tax in Cart on DemandRFID (Radio-Frequency Identification) for POSBackoffice TransactionsBack Office Menu ChangesStore CommonGoogle Maps on the IT Health DashboardStore Inventory & Fulfillment (SIF)Store Order FulfillmentShow Order Number for Completed ShipmentsPrevent Shipment if Payment FailsStore Inventory ManagementPhased RFID EnablementTagged and Non-Tagged Item SupportView Inventory - Locate Item Using RFIDCycle Count - Display Additional Item InformationReceived by FedEx Label BarcodeStore CommonEncode RFID TagsDeveloper Documentation Order Management Enterprise Inventory Availability by Style A product can be defined as either an item, style, style-color combination, or style-size combination.This release introduces a new API that allows digital channels to retrieve information about the availability of items within a particular style. By utilizing this API, digital channels can seamlessly make real-time requests to Manhattan Active® Omni and provide customers with clear indications of the available color(s) and/or size(s) on the Product Details Page. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Publish Availability - Process Publish Availability - Configuration Get the Maximum Available Quantity at a Single Location Currently, for network views, availability is aggregated for all the locations in the view by location types. However, in some cases, a retailer may want to ensure that a customer cannot purchase more units than the quantity available at a single location. In these cases, the network views can be configured to return to the maximum availability in a single location. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Publish Availability Configuration Customer Committed Delivery Date in the Release Message The committed delivery date on the release message today is the most pessimistic date. If a line is allocated against both on hand and future inventory, the release outbound for the on-hand units will have the committed delivery date of future units as that date is the most pessimistic date. As part of this feature, the release outbound message will be enhanced to send the Committed Delivery Date, Earliest Ship Date, and Earliest Delivery Date corresponding to the quantity that is getting released, and not the pessimistic dates. Communicating this information will enable the Transportation Planning System to improve carrier management, and the Warehouse Management System to facilitate more efficient shipment planning. Note: This feature is driven by the Release response Template. Related: Publish Release Ignore Receipt Time During Merge Manhattan Active® Omni utilizes the location receipt time while calculating the scheduled dates for each leg on a merged shipment. With this feature, locations can be configured to ignore the receipt time for the merge legs. Note: This feature is controlled by a parameter which is disabled by default. Related: Inventory Configuration - Location Receipt Time Release Cut-Off Time Grace Period This feature allows a configurable minutes of grace period past the location cut off time to release order still meeting the committed delivery date. For example, if the cut-off time is 4:00 p.m. and the release job starting at 4:00 p.m. takes 15 minutes to run, then this parameter must be set to a  minimum of 15 minutes. Note: This feature is controlled by a parameter which is disabled by default. Related: How Release Works Promising Configuration - Cut Off Grace Time Continuous Allocation - Lock Allocations Before Release Continuous allocation process can be configured to prevent stealing of inventory from an order after a particular timeframe. This timeframe can be defined in the following ways: A date passed on the incoming order, after which the order is locked from stealing. A configuration that allows users to specify the number of hours before the latest release date for when the order is locked from stealing. Note: This feature is controlled by an attribute on the incoming order and by a parameter which is disabled by default. Related: Continuous Allocation - Process Continuous Allocation - Configuration Fulfillment Insights Dashboard The new insight data dashboard provides visibility to a set of fulfillment performance KPIs for a retailer, in comparison with the corresponding industry standards. The dashboard provides the following KPIs for both the retailer and the industry: Fulfillment Breakdown by Delivery Method - Shipping, Pickup Fulfillment Breakdown by Location Types - Stores, Distribution Centers, Suppliers, and so on Average Time to Fulfill Percentage of Shorts Percentage of Cancels Note: This feature will automatically be available. Related: Fulfillment Insight Dashboard Order Selling Prevent Shipment If Payment Fails With this feature, Manhattan Active® Omni allows retailers to systematically prevent shipping if there is a payment failure post release. If an order is in the middle of the fulfillment process in Manhattan Active Store or Manhattan Active WM, and re-authorization fails, Manhattan Active® Omni can prevent Store or WM from shipping that item. Additionally, this feature allows capturing payments systematically and resuming the whole fulfillment process on successful payment capture. In scenarios where payment could not be captured, the order is canceled after a configured time period. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Prevent Item Fulfillment on Payment Failure Late Order Cancellation Dynamic Picking Prioritization - Process Dynamic Picking Prioritization - Configuration Automatic Write-Offs With Manhattan Active® Omni, retailers can now configure the system to automatically write off any payment that is due for fulfilled orders. The automatic write-off is attempted after all the attempts to recover the payment are exhausted, which in turn will close any open invoices and generate sales posting. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Settlement Email Messages for Digital Goods Fulfillment With this feature, retailers can configure generation of a curated email message that gets published when digital goods are fulfilled. The email message indicates whether the digital goods were fulfilled as part of appeasement, return, and so on, which allows retailers to choose different email templates, and send relevant emails to the customers. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Digital Shipment Confirmation Bypass Remorse Period for POS Send Sales With this feature, retailers can override the order line remorse period for individual lines on the order depending on order line attributes. Retailers can configure tag groups based on order line attribute, and any order line that meets the tag group criteria will be associated with the remorse period for that tag group. For "POS Send Sale" lines, the system automatically overrides the remorse period to 0, so that they release immediately. Note: This feature will automatically be available. For POS Send Sales, remorse period can be configured to a value other than 0, if the requirement is not to release them immediately. Related: Bypassing Order Line Remorse Period Eligible Days for Refunding S&H Charges With Manhattan Active® Omni, retailers can now configure the system to mandatorily refund S&H charges for statutory compliance if the entire customer order is returned within an eligible number of days after the customer order was fulfilled or delivered. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is not enabled by default. Related: Eligible Days For Refund Return Age Based on Delivered Date Active Omni provides the return age policy based on the delivered date along with the shipped date option. Retailers can choose either of the dates to determine the return age criteria. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is not enabled by default. Related: How Returns Work Colorado Retail Delivery Fee Manhattan Active® Omni provides support for implementing the Colorado retail delivery fee through the tax module. This solution is primarily achieved through Vertex, but certain elements can be leveraged when using an alternative tax provider integration. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Retail Delivery Fees Pay by Link Reminder and Unconfirmed Orders Cancelation This feature allows customers placing orders through contact center to make the payment at their convenience, and not pay immediately for the contact center agent to confirm and complete the order. In scenarios where the end customer wants to pay later, or the call dropped off, contact center agents can email or text the pay by link and exit the order gracefully. They can also choose to save the customer's details before leaving the order without having to confirm the order since the payment has not been made yet. Once the payment is received within a configured time, the order gets auto-confirmed, else the order is canceled. Additionally, retailers can also configure a time to send a reminder email to the customer to complete the payment. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. In case a retailer wants to use this feature and is currently cancelling unconfirmed Pay by Link orders with order milestone, it is recommended to use an agent or scheduler. The 'Leave Order' button is controlled by a grant enabled by default unless the user has access to all grants. Related: Pay by Link Pay by Link for Contact Center Agents Order Configuration UI Improvements This release includes a new Order configuration UI with a range of new features designed to optimize the customer experience. Among these enhancements are a search bar, the frozen first column and row of Modtype tables in the modification rules UI, and static cancel and save buttons across all sections of the Order configuration UI, and so on. These improvements aim to minimize the need for constant scrolling, reducing the additional effort required by customers. Note: This feature is controlled by a behavioural change configuration which is disabled by default. If the order configuration page is unable to load and is giving a 403 error, clear the Zuul cache by using the below API. API : DELETE {{url}}/zuulserver/api/admin/cache/resources Order Fulfillment Customer Driven Fulfillment Manhattan Active® Omni has been enhanced to accept changes to partially fulfilled lines and ensure those changes apply only to the remaining units to be fulfilled. Changes are enabled to key attributes, including shipping address, requested delivery date, shipping method, carrier and service level on the order line and external route id on order line promising information. When making changes, the Order Management System will not trigger any post release updates and the existing release and subsequent merged legs will continue to have their previous values. This feature will be supported when order selling and payments are disabled. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Update of Partially Released Lines Prevent Post Release Update ModTypes Digital Self-Service Printerless Returns The Digital Self Service return flow is enhanced to include a new return method: QR code returns. With this feature, customers can initiate returns without having to print a shipping label. Instead, a QR code is created based on the return data, and customers can bring their returned goods to a FedEx location that will package the goods. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Returns & Exchanges Store Returns Customers can now initiate store returns through the Digital Self Service returns flow. After selecting items and reviewing the return, a barcode is displayed for the customer to present at the store when they arrive with their returned items. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Returns & Exchanges Shipment Tracking Access Point Details with UPS The Shipment Tracking page is enhanced to display Access Point location details when packages are routed to a UPS Access Point for customer pickup. Information, such as Access Point address, phone number, and operating hours are displayed, in addition to a requested pickup date provided by the carrier. Note: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Shipment Tracking Contact Center Item Search Enhancements This release includes a new Item Search Method: MultiMatch. MultiMatch search is an exact search, meaning that the system returns only items that meet all the words provided in the search. For example, if the user searches for Aviator Rose Gold Sunglasses, the system only returns items that include Aviator + Rose + Gold + Sunglasses. It will not return Gold Sunglasses, Rose Gold Signature Necklace, Aviator Gold Sunglasses, and so on. MultiMatch does support root word partial match, which means, if the user searches for the Green Occasional Chair, the system will return to the Greenish Occasional Chair. This ensures that items are not missed during searches. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is not enabled by default. Related: Item Search Waiving Fees for Confirmed Return Orders Prior to this release, customer service agents could not waive return fees once the return order was confirmed. Now, fees and S&H fees can be waived for return orders, in any status but canceled. To perform this function, the user would need the correct grants to be associated with their role. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is not enabled by default. Related: Overriding Return Fees Waive Fees and S&H Order Line Filter The contact center Order Details page includes a filter to narrow down which order lines are displayed, based on common values such as SKU, item short description, order line number, and ETA. The filter is also available from the Appeasement pop-up. Access to the filter is defined by grants for both the Contact Center and the Appeasement pop-up. Note: This feature is controlled by a grant which is not enabled by default unless the user has access to all the grants. Related: Appeasement Large Order Support for Contact Center The contact center and customer engagement application has been updated to provide enhanced UI support for large orders. This includes displaying pagination and better scrolling capabilities for large orders. Note: This feature is controlled by Change in Behavior "Large Order Support". Refer to the behavior change document here for additional information on this process. Related: Large Order Support for Contact Center Pay By Link Enhancements for Contact Center Contact center agents can use the Copy URL button in the pay by link section to “copy” the Digital Self-Service Pay by Link URL to their clipboard and send it to the customer in the chat window (or any other 3rd party application). Note: This feature is controlled by a grant which is not enabled by default unless the user has access to all the grants. Related: Pay by Link for Contact Center Agents Stylized Customer Details Pop-up The Update Customer Details Pop-up, available from the Edit Order UI, has been restyled for a more modern, user-friendly experience. In addition, the pop-up has been renamed: Update Customer Details Popup. No functional changes were made to the pop-up. Note: This feature will automatically be available. Improved Register Customer Pop-up The Register Customer Popup, available from the Edit Order UI, has been restyled to be more flexible and user-friendly. Prior to this release, if a significant number of addresses were associated with an order, it was difficult to view some of the address lines. To accommodate orders with many addresses, a scroll was introduced as part of the styling changes. The scroll is also available for the payment section of the pop-up. Note: This feature is controlled by Change in Behavior, "OM-Customer Popup". Refer to the behavior change document here for additional information on this process. Customer Engagement Contact Center Manager Dashboard Contact center managers that manage different teams of contact center agents can monitor the general trends in case management and monitor the performance and progress of the agents in their team. Note: This feature is controlled by Change in Behavior, "OM - Enable Contact Center Manager Dashboard ". Refer to the behavior change document here for additional information on this process. Related: Contact Center Manager Dashboard Auto-populate Order ID in Interaction Wrap-Up for Order Creation/Edits Contact center agents do not have to manually enter the order number while doing an interaction wrap-up anymore. The order number will be automatically populated every time the agent views, edits, or creates an order. Note: This feature will automatically be available Related: Auto-populate Order ID in Interaction Wrap-Up for Order Creation/Edits Enhance CSR Dashboard to Show Past Due Cases and Cases Assigned to My Team Contact center agents can view 2 new metrics on the agent dashboard/ Homepage: Cases Assigned to my team: This metric shows all the cases assigned to the team(s) that the logged-in user belongs to. It does not include closed cases. Past Due Cases: This metric shows all the cases that belong to the logged-in user that have past the due date. It does not include closed cases. Note: This feature will automatically be available Related: Case Metrics Customer Profile Extended Attribute Alignment Prior to this release, extensions did not align with the base attributes; the user had to add key and value css styling per extended attribute. With the 23.3 release, any newly added extended attributes align with the base attributes by default. Note: This feature will automatically be available General Thai Language Support Manhattan Active® Omni now supports Thai Language support. Note:This feature will automatically be available Related: Translation Guide Large Order Support Retailers can now import customer orders with 250 order lines. Note: This feature will automatically be available Related: Creating and Updating Order Developer Portal Access Users can access the Developer Portal directly from the help  icon on any Manhattan Active® Omni screen. The help icon accesses the help directory, which includes links to Product Documentation (ProProfs) and the Developer Portal. Note:This feature will automatically be available Point of Sale Order Selling Receipt Localization Customer receipts are now localized to print in languages apart from English. Receipts language is picked from the logged-in store user's locale. Related: Translation Guide Pay By Link Pay by Link allows a store associate to generate a link during checkout which gets emailed or generated as a QR Code to capture payment.   This process allows for a customer to pay for an order without being physically present, having to share sensitive credit card information with a store associate or checking a customer out in the back of the store without a payment terminal. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: POS Payment Process POS Payment Configuation Calculate Tax in Cart on Demand POS application provides the ability for the store associate to calculate tax in cart on demand. When this option, the application does not make continuous frequent calls to the tax engine to retrieve the tax value dynamically "as you go" for each item.  Instead, there is a Calculate button provided at the footer level in Transaction Summary of the Cart screen under the Tax section to initiate the tax calculation. If the user never selects CALCULATE, the tax will automatically be calculated at CHECKOUT. The advantage of this strategy is to allow items to be more rapidly scanned and resolved one by one scanned into the cart screen by 'batching' the tax call for multiple items rather than making, for each item sequentially.  This could be an advantage for high-volume retailers. The behavior pertains to the below scenarios of adding items to the Cart: When the item is scanned using the scanner. When the item bar code is typed and entered in “Quick Item Entry” field. When the item bar code is typed in the “Type Barcode” popup. The behavior does not pertain when items are added via RFID, global search, or catalog. Related: Process Configuration RFID (Radio-Frequency Identification) for POS Based upon a new user grant and business flag, the CART screen will offer the user the ability to enter the RFID mode.  When POS is connected to a supported flatbed RFID reader, the user can place item(s) on the reader which will "read" the item tags and add them to the customer's cart. An indicator will appear next to all item(s) in the cart that were added via the RFID Flatbed reader; there are no receipt changes. RFID information (EPC, SGTIN, serial number and so on) will be logged in order to also be booked in the RFID unit inventory component.  When RFID is turned off, item(s) will need to be entered via current methods (such as UPC scanning, catalog search and so on). POS RFID is currently only supported for Windows devices and large form factor (i.e., fixed registers).  This feature is controlled by permissions and configuration.  The grant to allow the user to enable Cart-RFID mode is ui::posservice::accessrfid.  The business flag is POS Cart in Store RFID Parameters UI. Related: Process Config Backoffice Transactions Back Office Menu Changes The back office menu operations have been regrouped  to be more intuitive for the individual user. Operations are now grouped by opening and closing functions.  Additionally, till close and till reconciliation, menu options have been renamed. Note: This feature is controlled by Change in Behavior, "Group Back Office Menu By Business Functions".  Please refer to the behavior change document here for additional information on this process and to learn to take advantage of this feature early for testing and training. Related: Process Store Common Google Maps on the IT Health Dashboard The Store IT Health Dashboard is enabled to display the store location and their status on Google Maps. In the map view, the marker pins are shown on the Google Map based on the status of the store. Green for fully operational Yellow when it’s experiencing issues Red when status is critical Related: Process Store Inventory & Fulfillment (SIF) Store Order Fulfillment Show Order Number for Completed Shipments The customer order number is now displayed on the Completed Shipments UI for troubleshooting purposes. Note: This feature is automatically available as part of the release. Related: Shipping Prevent Shipment if Payment Fails Refer to the Prevent Shipment if Payment Fails feature in the Order Management section of this document. Store Inventory Management Phased RFID Enablement RFID store count can now be enabled independent of other store inventory, store fulfillment and point of sale functions. This allows retailers to quickly benefit from the improved accuracy of periodic store counts and roll out additional RFID-based store functions in a phased manner. In this partial RFID mode, each unit's status is only tracked during store count and is updated to either available or missing. The expected quantity for each item is obtained from Inventory Supply. The capture of RFID tags during store operations such as picking, packing, receiving and POS transactions is optional. These can be enabled once the store is ready and the partial mode switched off. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Store RFID Store Count Configuration Tagged and Non-Tagged Item Support Several store inventory functions now support a mixture of tagged and non-tagged items in the same transaction. A flag on the item determines whether the item is RFID tracked. Receiving - Store associates can receive RFID and non-RFID packages in the same transaction. Store count - Store associates can count tagged items using RFID store count and count the non-tagged items using non-RFID cycle count. Inventory Adjustment - Store associates can create an adjustment transaction that contains tagged and non-tagged items. Note: The ability to identify items as tagged or not tagged is automatically available as part of the release. Related: Store RFID Receiving Store Count Inventory Adjustment View Inventory - Locate Item Using RFID Store associates can now utilize a handheld RFID reader if they need assistance locating an item in the store. Based on permissions, a Locate action in the View Inventory UI directs the user to the closest unit of the item based on the user's current physical location. Visual and audible indicators increase or decrease depending on whether the user is moving closer or farther from the unit. A "Next Tag" action allows the associate to find another unit of the same item which directs them to the next closest tag based on their current location. Note: This feature is controlled by permissions and a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Store RFID View Inventory Configuration Cycle Count - Display Additional Item Information The department, style , color, size and image of an item can now be displayed on the Remaining Counts UI, Count UI and Review UI. Note: This feature is controlled by a configuration which is disabled by default. Related: Cycle Count Cycle Count Configuration Received by FedEx Label Barcode Packages shipped via FedEx can now be received by scanning the 34-digit FedEx number that is printed on the shipping label. Note: This feature is automatically available as part of the release. Related: Receiving Shipping Store Common Encode RFID Tags Store associates now have the ability to encode a "blind" RFID tag with a handheld reader by assigning it to an item that arrived in the store without a tag or whose tag was lost or damaged. Note: This feature is controlled by permission. Related: Store RFID Encode RFID Tags Developer Documentation Documentation for several featured APIs has been added, including APIs to create a cycle count request and send a RFID tag feed for in-transit packages. Guides have also been added for integration with overhead RFID readers and RFID-enabled external POS systems. This documentation is available at https://developer.manh.com.