# Release 21.2

**Permalink:** release-notes-21.2
**Path:** Home/Release Notes/Manhattan Active® Omni/2021/Release 21.2
**Content Length:** 69,373 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:52:34.796216

---

Home››Release Notes››Manhattan Active® Omni››2021 ››Release 21.2 Manhattan Active® Omni Release Notes 21.2 Release Date: 4.2.2021 Order ManagementLate Order Cancellation for BOPIS ItemsLate Order Cancellation in Contact CenterCancel my Order via Digital Self-ServiceLate order Cancellations in Store FulfillmentCurbside Pickup: "On the Way"Curbside Pickup "On the way" in Digital Self-ServiceCurbside Pickup "On the way" Metrics in Store FulfillmentContact CenterEvaluate Shipping RestrictionsDisplay Estimated Delivery Dates during Order CapturePhone Number Country Code CaptureEnterprise InventoryInteractive InventoryRestrict Locations by Service Level"Committed Delivery Date" for future dated ordersContinuous AllocationOrder SellingProrate Header Discounts across LinesNew Order ID Generation StrategyOrder FulfillmentTrack if Order Lines have been ShortedDigital Self-ServiceContact Customer ServiceCustomer-Facing Return ReasonsReturn Age PolicyCustomer EngagementLinking Incoming Emails to CasesComposing Emails with Multiple TemplatesAuto-Response for Emails Point of Sale (POS)POS Order SellingRetry Declined Gift Card Activation/ReloadGift Card ReturnabilityInternationalization: Currency FormattingSmart Scan Loyalty Number:Display Returnable Quantity on Return Order DetailManager Override for Returns beyond eligible return daysRefund amount threshold for ReturnsAdvanced Local Tax: Compound Taxes (ex. PIF)Enhanced Payment Failure Messaging for User ExitsOrder Creation Based on Delivery Method RestrictionsProduct CatalogDisplay additional item attributes on Item Details screenBackoffice TransactionsReprint Receipts for Manager TransactionsRefined Open Store ProcessStore Customer EngagementPhone number country code capture on Store screensResilient Cloud for POSEdge Server – Self Upgradeable InstallerInbound Sync - Deleted RecordsStore Inventory & Fulfillment (SIF)Store Order Fulfillment Pickup orders - Customer signature formattingPickup orders - Unit level metrics  Curbside pickups - Automatic refreshShipment orders - FedEx Ship web service upgrade  Shipment orders - Void tracking numberShipment orders - PDF support for shipping labelsPicking - On hand inventory visibilityPicking - Dynamic picking prioritizationInternationalization of phone number display  Show instruction sub typeAdditional resource granularity for actionsStore Inventory ManagementReceipts - Configurable supply type  Cycle Counting – Configurable landing pageView Inventory – Item scanningCommon for SIF and POSGZip compressionLogin Page Customization Order Management Late Order Cancellation for BOPIS Items Late order cancellation is a new capability to request cancellation of a released pick up in store (BOPIS) line when the customer changes his mind to not pick up the items. This way, inventory holding can be made available for other customers who wishes to purchase. Manhattan Active® Omni delivers a seamless late order cancellation of BOPIS line experience through Digital Self-Service (DSS) or Contact Center in conjunction with Store Inventory & Fulfillment (SIF). See Late Order Cancellation for Contact Center Video See Late Order Cancellation for Digital Self Service (DSS) Video Late Order Cancellation in Contact Center When this feature is enabled, contact center agents can cancel BOPIS lines which have already been released to the store for fulfillment. Related: Late Order Cancellation Cancel my Order via Digital Self-Service End customers can now cancel items using Digital Self-Service, without the assistance of customer service. Customers can view which items are eligible for cancellation, select items and reasons for cancellation, and preview their new order total before confirming cancellation. BOPIS items can be canceled post-release (until they've been picked up). Ship to home and ship to store items can be canceled up until released status. Related: Cancellations Late order Cancellations in Store Fulfillment All or part of a pickup order can now be canceled after the order has been released to the store, giving customer additional time to make adjustments to their orders. Cancellations can be initiated by the customer from DSS or CSRs can initiate from Contact Center. The late cancellation request is supported at the fulfillment level and line level. If the cancellation request is received before picking begins, the associate is directed to pick only the remaining uncancelled quantity. If the cancellation is received after picking, the Staging, Confirm Pickup and Contact Customer UIs are changed to alert the associates that the fulfillment or fulfillment line was canceled after picking, and that inventory should be removed from the order. In addition, The Staging UI lists fulfillments which have been completely canceled with a canceled status to notify associates to return the inventory to stock The Confirm Pickup UI prompts store associates to reprint pickup slip The Return to Shelf UI lists fulfillments that have canceled entirely or have lines that have been canceled In addition, store associates are able to cancel damaged units on the order from the Contact Customer UI prior to arriving at the store if the customer does not want them. In addition, store associates can now cancel lines or units from an order using the Contact Customer UI which provides the ability to update the order and make inventory available prior to the customer arriving at the store. This is useful when the pick up date is being extended using Contact Customer, and the customer decides they only want a portion of the ordered items. This also allows the retailer to contact the customer to notify them that an ordered item is slightly damaged to see if they would still like the item. The ability to cancel lines or units from Contact Customer is permission controlled. This feature is controlled by configuration. Related: Late Order Cancellation Contact Customer Process Contact Customer Configuration Curbside Pickup: "On the Way" Curbside pickup customers can now alert the store when they are on their way via Digital Self-Service. I'm on my way demo Curbside Pickup "On the way" in Digital Self-Service When the customer launches the Digital Self-Service curbside pickup page to indicate their on their way, the store associate receives a push notification. If the customer has shared their location with Digital Self-Service (using Google location tracking), then the store associate also has visibility into the customer's estimated time of arrival (ETA). Related: On The Way Curbside Pickup "On the way" Metrics in Store Fulfillment The Manager Dashboard UI now displays the number of orders with customers on the way, giving store managers visibility into upcoming curbside arrivals. Store managers can navigate from the Manager Dashboard to the Curbside Pickup UI to view the list of curbside orders with customers who are on the way. The curbside metrics as well as the ability to navigate to the Curbside Pickup UI from Manager Dashboard are both permission controlled. Related: Manager Dashboard Process Contact Center Evaluate Shipping Restrictions A new capability is provided for the retailers to configure shipping restrictions applicable for a given product class or shipping method with respect to the shipping address in Shipping & Handling component. This is used by the system to evaluate any shipping restrictions that are applicable to the order created or updated from the contact center screen at the time of order creation or when shipping method or ship to address is updated on the order. After evaluating the shipping restrictions configured in the system, the system alerts the contact center agent by displaying all the shipping restrictions existing for the order. The contact center agent can update either the shipping method or the ship to address which is restricted for a particular item, if required, or read them to the customer as per the statutory provisions. Related: Customer Service Configuration Shipping Restrictions Order Orchestration Process - Evaluating Shipping Restrictions Order Orchestration Configuration - Shipping Restrictions-configuration Display Estimated Delivery Dates during Order Capture Contact center agents can now have visibility of the estimated delivery dates based on the shipping method that is available so that they can easily let the customer know when they can expect the order depending on the shipping method selected. This visibility is available to contact center agents in the following flows: Display the estimated delivery date based on the shipping method selected on the item select page while placing an order Display the estimated delivery date based on the shipping method selected on the Edit order page while editing an already existing order Display the estimated delivery date based on the shipping method selected for exchange orders. This feature is automatically enabled with the release. Phone Number Country Code Capture Contact center agents can now select phone number prefixes for all Contact Center and Customer Engagement phone number values. The prefix feature is a drop-down option on all phone number values for the contact center agent to easily find the country code needed for the customer's number. Based on the address saved on the order or customer's preferred addresses, the prefix will be automatically displayed for the contact center agent throughout order edit. Feature includes: Default prefix populated based on default country configuration Automatic formatting and masking of phone numbers while contact center agent inputs the phone number Soft-check error message if contact center agent provides phone number that does not match suggested format Support of 20+ international phone number formats with ability to configure more Export of all phone numbers in e164 format (Ex. +15556079090) Related: Capturing Phone Number Call Center Configuration Enterprise Inventory Interactive Inventory Interactive Inventory Metrics Dashboard A new Interactive Inventory dashboard has been introduced to provide key metrics and KPIs related to Inventory and Promising, such as delivery date lead times and inventory availability. The dashboard provides visibility to the Availability API calls, Delivery Date API calls, and the orders created. The dashboard enables users to: Validate the lead times being promised are meeting the business expectations Assess the customer's preference with respect to fulfillment options Improve fulfillment decisions based on the average number of shipments Understand from where the requests are coming and make fulfillment decisions Related: Interactive Inventory - Overview Interactive Inventory - Metrics Dashboard Delivery Dates - Support Multiple Shipping Methods in a Single Request The product and cart delivery dates services will now support multiple shipping methods in a single request. The selling channel can now make one call with eligible shipping methods from the product details page or during view cart/checkout to display delivery dates for each shipping method on the request. Related: Delivery Dates Services Delivery Dates - Support Multiple Fulfillment Options in a Single Request The product and cart delivery dates services will now support pickup delivery options from product details page or view cart/checkout pages. This allows customers to get both shipping options and pickup options as part of one call to Manhattan Active® Omni. The selling channel can request dates for "Shipping-Only", "Pickup-Only" or a mixed cart and display dates accordingly for different delivery options. Related: Delivery Dates Services Restrict Locations by Service Level In order to simplify the configuration required to support implementations where a location does not support all service levels, locations can now be configured to support specific service level(s). This allows customers to define origin based restrictions by specifying the services levels a particular location can perform. All promising requests will exclude locations that don't support the incoming service level(s). This will be supported in both the promising calls and the new interactive inventory dates services. Related: How Promising Works Delivery Dates Services "Committed Delivery Date" for future dated orders When orders are allocated, the expected delivery date is now calculated and saved as the “Committed Delivery Date” on the order. This allows businesses to communicate to the customer when delivery should be expected when the requested delivery date on the order is not feasible due to carrier delivery schedules. It can be enabled by promising configuration parameter - "ComputeCommittedDeliveryDate". Related: How Scheduling Works Continuous Allocation In addition to immediate and batch (allocation & reallocation), users can now configure Manhattan Active® Omni to continuously evaluate fulfillment optimization in real time using Continuous Allocation. Continuous Allocation ensures that allocated orders leverage the optimal supply at the fulfillment location and that backordered lines are reevaluated in real time. Continuous Allocation is triggered and evaluated at the line level. Continuous Allocation is triggered when availability is changed by supply change events such as supply increase/decrease, ETA update, error set/reset, or demand change events such as order create, update, or delete. In case of availability increase, inventory is blocked temporarily to utilize in allocation for existing orders. Once complete, the remaining inventory is exposed to selling channels for new orders Related: How Continuous Allocation Works Order Selling Prorate Header Discounts across Lines The line specific discounts and sum of prorated header discounts on the line are exceeding the line subtotal causing downstream system error out. The line level information from the sales posting is used to relay to external system and hence has to be corrected. If the total discounts are greater than line subtotal then the discrepant amount are distributed to other eligible lines. New Order ID Generation Strategy A new strategy can optionally be used to generate order IDs for channels where the order ID is not provided on order creation (for example, Digital Self-Service). This strategy allows for prefix, suffix, and maximum length configuration. For example, this order ID generation strategy is useful for return orders using UPS return labels, as UPS has a strict character limit on the order IDs which they use to print barcodes on the return label. Related: Returns & Exchanges Order Fulfillment Track if Order Lines have been Shorted Manhattan Active® Store Inventory & Fulfillment needs to know how many times an order line is shorted for prioritizing the reallocated lines for fulfillment. Related: Short Event Impacts Digital Self-Service Contact Customer Service With this feature, customers can directly contact customer service via email, text, phone, or Twitter from any Digital Self-Service page. For example, if a customer is creating a return via Digital Self-Service and needs assistance, they can text customer service to get help. Contact options supported include text, phone, email, and Twitter and can be optionally enabled for each Digital Self-Service page. Related: Contact Us Customer-Facing Return Reasons A list of return reasons can now be configured specifically for Digital Self-Service. Use this feature to expose a different list of return reasons to your customers in Digital Self-Service from those displayed in the Contact Center. Each return reason can be configured only for Digital Self-Service, only for Contact Center, or eligible for both channels. Related: Return Reasons Return Age Policy Now in Digital Self-Service, customers have visibility into items that are not returnable due to age policies. Digital Self-Service disables return and exchange options for items which were fulfilled more than X days ago, where X is the configured return age policy. Related: Return Policy Customer Engagement Linking Incoming Emails to Cases Incoming emails can now be transformed into cases. Emails from a customer will create a brand new case if the customer has no current pending issues or is emailing for the first time. If this customer does have an open case, the email will link to an existing case for more efficient visibility of customer communication history for the contact center agent. This feature is automatically enabled with the release. Related: Emails Composing Emails with Multiple Templates Contact center agents are constantly looking for ways to respond to customers more quickly. In this latest release, agents can use more than one template while composing emails. Templates support HTML, rich, and plain text and can be selected using an easy type-ahead feature. This feature is automatically enabled with the release. Related: Emails Auto-Response for Emails With the new automatic response to inbound emails, you can now provide customers with the instant confirmation that support is on the way. Customize your automatic response with details from the case such as order number or case ID which customers can use as a reference. The automatic response can be put to a queue to be formatted into an email by an external email provider, or Manhattan Active® Omni can format the email body HTML which can then be delivered by a third-party email provider. Related: Emails Point of Sale (POS) POS Order Selling Retry Declined Gift Card Activation/Reload Store Associate can now Retry a Decline Activation / Reload by swiping or entering same Gift card number or a different one.  This provides the user a second chance to fix an inadvertent use of an incorrect card too.  This feature is controlled through a business flag which also drives the maximum number retries permitted.  If the Gift card line eventually remains Failed, user can move on to the subsequent card or complete the transaction.  Each Retry and the associated order line is captured under payment method attribute. Related: Gift Card Process Guide Gift Card Returnability Customer can now get the amount refunded for the failed Gift Card Activation / Reload, as it is paid for upfront.  This new feature, allows the store associate to process a validated return of a Gift Card line item but only if the item failed to activate/load.  Returnability of a Gift Card line is determined by isReturnable flag and returnable quantity on the order line. Non-validated returns for Gift card items, and validated returns of Gift Cards which were successfully activated/loaded, continue to be NOT supported, by design. Note: This feature is automatically enabled with the release. Related: Gift Card Process Guide POS Returns & Exchange Process Internationalization: Currency Formatting This capability is enabled through a configuration under POS Store configuration: posStoreConfig>storeCommonConfig>enableCurrencyFormatting If this business flag is True, then Point Of Sale, Back Office UI and Receipts are enhanced to format money amount fields based on the configurations in posStoreConfig>defaultStoreCurrency and defaultStoreLanguage. The 3 digit ISO currency configured in Store's Default Currency determines the currency symbol (ex. $ for USD and CAD, € for EUR). The 2 digit Language (Locale) configuration determines the decimal indicator (ex. period "." for en, comma "," for fr).  Locales supported are those which Cloud Frame Work supports, found in organization>locales. Settings will apply to all the display amount fields such as Order Total, Balance Due etc., and amount entry fields such as Discount, Price Override, Till Float etc .  Receipts are modified to display currency symbol or currency code along with the previously supported amount value.  While doing so, an additional empty space is added between lines which may result in overall increase in the length of the receipt. Related: POS Cart Configuration Smart Scan Loyalty Number: Point Of Sale system is enhanced to allow the store associate to scan the Loyalty number on the cart screen to add it to the Order.  Bar code rules are and Bar code context are updated to support this feature.  With this, user has the flexibility to add Loyalty number by manually entering from the Menu and scan on the cart screen. Note: This feature is automatically enabled with the release; however, as with all bar code rules, services must populate the appropriate bar code and rule entities to create a sensible rule (ex. barCode>rule, barCode>ruleGroup, barCode>ruleCondition, posService>barCodeType entities). For testing purposes, a sample Bar Code Rule Condition "5 digits, starts with L" has been initially seeded in base profile. Display Returnable Quantity on Return Order Detail Retailers can choose to display the order detail of the original sale during a return, and to highlight/select items from this detail.  Prior to this release, only the original sale quantity was shown, which could be confusing to a user if the item has already been returned.  With new functionality each item's Returnable Quantity is also shown on the order detail during a return. For example, if a sale contained Item A at quantity 2 originally and 1 of Item A has already been returned, during the return from order detail the user will see that the Returnable Quantity is now 1, not the original 2. Nothing is required to enable this feature.  However, if user configures posGeneralConfig>commonConfig>blindReturn = True, the feature is not relevant since order detail is not available during a "blind" return. Manager Override for Returns beyond eligible return days Prior to this release the retailers did not have the option to proceed with a validated return if the order creation date is beyond eligible days of return as per the configuration. Retailers can only process as a non-validated return or void the return item. With 21.2 there is a new feature added which allows the retailers to bypass the check on the Eligible Days of Return configuration in the Return and Exchange.  Retailer now can Ignore the Age Policy check and process the return as a validated one.  This feature is controlled by a business flag and requires specific user grant. In the absence of this grant a manger override pop up is displayed to the user and can be overridden by the user who has the grant associated to their role. Related: POS Returns & Exchange Process POS Cart Configuration Refund amount threshold for Returns Retailers will now an ability to define and control refund amount thresholds per payment type and user roles. This is applicable for both returns with and without receipts and for automatic and override tender refund scenarios. This threshold is designed to work on top of existing maximum refund limits by honoring it. This feature will also have a capability to override with valid user credentials if return transaction's refund maximum is reached for a logged in user. This feature is enabled via user defining threshold(s) by role/payment type, using Manage POS Configurations > POS Configurations > Threshold configurations Related: Manager Override & Routing - Configurations Returns & Exchange - Process Advanced Local Tax: Compound Taxes (ex. PIF) In most cases in standard US or Canada sales tax system, separate levels/rates of tax are applied independently, as 'flat' rates.  A 3% city rate and 4% county rate applied on 100.00 item results in post-tax total of 107.00 since both the 3% and 4% were applied over the same 100.00 taxable amount. In rare cases, a tax level can itself be taxable.  Product Improvement Fees (or PIF) in Colorado are handled this way.  When this happens the resulting total tax is 'compounded' like savings account interest.  In the prior example, if the 3% city rate were PIF, the calculation would be 3% of 100.00 plus 4% of 103.00 (taxable amount includes the "compound tax") and post-tax result is 107.12, higher than 107.00 due to compounding. Retailers will now an ability to define local 'taxable taxes', i.e. compound taxes for a particular location/store using advanced local taxes.  Compound taxes can be added from local tax "Advanced Tax Rate Configuration" and can be defined with existing attributes such as location, tax code, jurisdiction type, begin and end date etc.  When this is defined, compound taxes are applied first and then the regular taxes get applied on top of it i.e. order total and compound taxes.  In the (unlikely) event of multiple compound tax levels, a sequence configuration is provided to specify the rate application order. Related: Order Pricing Configurations Enhanced Payment Failure Messaging for User Exits The payment failure on custom code will no more be flagged only with generic error message.  Base error handling is modified to support propagating the custom payment error message from provider to the base/UI without interruption. This will be adopted for payment type with PTT (Process through terminal) is false, for all major payment user exit flows such as Add Tender, Refund Tender, Void Tender, Gift Card Balance inquiry. This feature should be available by default for all users. Order Creation Based on Delivery Method Restrictions This feature provides the ability to control the type of order that can be created for a specific item. It allows the retailer to control if Ship To Address, Pick Up in Store and Ship To Store order types can be created for any specific item. If the new business flag POS Store Config> Store Common Config> Validate Item Fulfillment Methods at POS is enabled, then the application checks for the delivery methods set up as  item selling attributes and allows/restricts the creation of type of order based on the flags set for different delivery methods. Related: Selling Process POS Cart Configuration Product Catalog Display additional item attributes on Item Details screen This feature allows retailers to configure the various item attributes to be displayed on the Item details screen within POS.  Retailers can choose to display additional base attributes, such as style and season, or they can use extended item attributess such as fit or fabric. They can also choose in which order to display the attributes, whether or not to display them as tapable tiles or a dropdown in a tablet, and whether to print them on receipts.  Additionally, retailers can now choose to pre-load the item availability for all items under a single style upon entering the new detail screen, or make individual calls to get item availabiltiy as the items are being configured on the screen. Prior to this, the item details screen was only able to show, and receipts only included, the color and size attributes for an item. Related: Product Catalog Process Guide Backoffice Transactions Reprint Receipts for Manager Transactions Retailers will now have the ability to reprint the various Manager Transactions receipts like PayIn, Pay Out, No Sale etc from the Electronic Journal (EJ).   Retailers can search these transaction in the EJ and using Reprint Receipt can either print or email the receipts.  Previously reprint was only available for regular cart/customer transactions such as Sale/Return.  No action is required to enable this feature. This functionality is secured by the existing override resource id used to reprint any other (cart/customer) transaction receipt  “overrideaccess::posservice::reprintcustomertransaction”.  The number of reprints allowed is subject to the same limit as other receipts, as per the max receipt quantity in the POS Store Config> Receipt Config. Refined Open Store Process This feature allows the retailers to default the device OS date during the Store Open process. When the business flag Default Store Open Date From System is set to True the application reads the date from the device and updates on the Start of Day. If the store was already closed for the same day, then the application will not allow the retailer to reopen the store. Retailers will not have the ability to manually update the store open date in the application Related: BackOffice Process BackOffice Configuration Store Customer Engagement Phone number country code capture on Store screens This feature allows the retailer to capture the country code associated to a customer's phone number.  When enabled, the user will be able to select from a list of countries which will then be appended to the phone number upon save.  In addition, retailers can configure a default country as well as favorites for a more user friendly experience.  This feature is enabled with a business flag and a new required grant to view the list of countries. Related: Store Customer Engagement Configuration Store Customer Engagement UI Resources Resilient Cloud for POS Edge Server – Self Upgradeable Installer Edge-installer is a java utility which does the edge server installation automatically based on the configuration provided in deployment group. In traditional approach every time when R&D releases a newer version, someone manually downloads and places the latest edge-installer in Windows VM. With latest feature, Edge Installer has the capability to self-upgrade itself, basically it downloads the latest edge installer binaries automatically from storage bucket and places it in edge installer path. Related: Resilient Cloud Installation and Upgrade Inbound Sync - Deleted Records Inbound sync can now be configured to remove master data records that have been removed from the Central server during sync. Related: Resilient Cloud Process Store Inventory & Fulfillment (SIF) Store Order Fulfillment Pickup orders - Customer signature formatting The customer signature displayed on the Confirm Pickups UI can now be displayed based on theme's coloring scheme and without a watermark. This is useful for retailers who print a hard copy of signatures to use in case of financial disputes.This feature is controlled by configuration. Related: Confirm Pickup Process Confirm Pickup Configuration Pickup orders - Unit level metrics Pickup order metrics on the Manager Dashboard UI now display in terms of units as well as orders. This can be useful for retailers whose labor and productivity tracking is based on units. This functionality is controlled by configuration. Related: Manager Dashboard Process Manager Dashboard Configuration Curbside pickups - Automatic refresh The Curbside Pickups list UI now automatically refreshes based on a configurable timer so that associates do not have to manually refresh the screen throughout the day. Associates can also manually refresh the screen in between automatic refresh cycles. Two configurable timers allow the retailer to separately define the refresh interval for transactional screens such as Curbside Pickups and for monitoring screens such as Manager Dashboard. This feature is controlled by configuration. Related: Manager Dashboard Process Manager Dashboard Configuration Curbside Pickups Shipment orders - FedEx Ship web service upgrade Retailers shipping with FedEx can now utilize version 20 of the Ship web service to get shipping and return labels which includes updates for the label compliance, including SmartPost labels. Mapping support is also included for Hold at Location, and requires a pre-ship user exit to implement. This feature is controlled by configuration. Related: Master Data guide Shipment orders - Void tracking number Retailers now have the ability to automatically void a package tracking number when a new one is created because of a change in carrier or service level by the store. This is useful for carriers that charge for unused tracking numbers, and is supported for all out of the box carriers. This feature is controlled by configuration. Related: Shipping Process Shipping Configuration Shipment orders - PDF support for shipping labels Manhattan Active Omni now accepts shipping or return labels that are returned in PDF format by carriers, as well as generating a collate document from the returned labels. This feature is automatically enabled with the release. Related: Shipping Process Picking - On hand inventory visibility The store's on-hand (perpetual) and available to pick quantities for an item are now visible to the associate when picking customer orders. If the associate is having difficulty in locating inventory, this additional visibility allows them to make an informed decision of whether to continue searching in other areas of the store. Configuration is provided to define which supply types to consider when calculating on-hand and available to pick. This feature is controlled using configuration. Related: Picking Process Picking Configuration Picking - Dynamic picking prioritization Retailers are now able to define configurable prioritization rules which communicate to associates the sequence that orders should be picked. Each rule can also be associated to a group which conveys different levels of urgency. By utilizing these business-driven prioritization rules and groups, retailers are able to ensure that the orders are picked in the appropriate sequence and within the necessary levels of urgency based on their defined business rules. As an example, a retailer can create a rule which ranks any Amazon Marketplace order or order which has been rejected by another store ahead of all other orders, and place them in a "top priority" group on the UI to convey the urgency of those orders to associates as they build their picklists. The fulfillment priority is initially updated during fulfillment creation, and can be periodically reevaluated based on a configurable job scheduler. This feature is controlled by configuration. Related: Picking Process Picking Configuration Internationalization of phone number display Store Order Fulfillment UIs now display the country code prefix for customer and store phone numbers. Customer phone number prefix is displayed when captured by the Order Management system, while the store phone number prefix is displayed when configured for the location. This feature is automatically enabled with the release. Show instruction sub type The instruction subtype is now displayed on the picking and packing UIs for header level instructions. For example, if a customer order requests that a personalized gift message be included as part of the order (instruction type = "Gift message"), the instruction would be displayed as 'Gift message - Happy Birthday!" during picking and packing to give the associate additional information about the purpose of the instruction. This feature is automatically enabled with the release. Related: Picking Process Packing Process Additional resource granularity for actions New UI resources have been provided for some of the existing actions in the Store Inventory and Fulfillment UIs, giving retailers additional role-based controls over what actions a user can perform. By default these new grants are applied to all already existing user roles and can be removed for roles as desired. Related: Store Fulfillment UI Resources (contains all SOF UI resources) Store Inventory UI Resources (list contains all SIM UI resources) Store Inventory Management Receipts - Configurable supply type Retailers can define a different supply type to use when receiving customer orders versus replenishment stock. This is useful if the retailer's financial systems differentiate between inventory for a customer order which may have already been sold versus replenishment stock. This is also useful if the retailer wishes to receive store replenishments under a quality check supply type so that the inventory is not exposed until the quality check has been performed. This feature is controlled by configuration. Related: Receiving Process Receiving Configuration Cycle Counting – Configurable landing page Retailers can now configure whether the landing page of the Cycle count UI is the counted screen or the remaining counts screen. This feature is controlled by configuration. Related: Cycle Count Process Cycle Count Configuration View Inventory – Item scanning Store associates using handheld devices can now directly scan an item after viewing the details for another item. This feature is automatically enabled with the release. Related: View Store Inventory Process Common for SIF and POS GZip compression GZip compression is enabled for the store application web assets like CSS, javascript files for effective bandwidth utilization, speeding up the UI load times on the web browser. This change is enabled at the deployment level for */store/* path ( hence applicable for both base CDN and custom CDN). This feature is automatically enabled with this release. Login Page Customization Retailers now have the ability to style and theme Active Omni login pages to fit the look and feel of their brand. Custom CSS can be applied all the login pages/ to a specific page. For example, 'Forgot Password' page can be styled differently from the Login page. Custom CSS and labels can be configured from the admin configuration UI to customize the login pages. Once configured, the CSS changes apply to all organization and users. Customization of literals is right now supported for a single language. Related: Login Page Customization