# Release 19.2

**Permalink:** release-notes-19.2
**Path:** Home/Release Notes/Manhattan Active® Omni/2019/Release 19.2
**Content Length:** 29,372 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:52:48.207024

---

Home››Release Notes››Manhattan Active® Omni››2019 ››Release 19.2 Manhattan Active™ Omni Release Notes 19.2 Release Date: 3.22.2019 Order ManagementEnhanced Time Zone SupportInventory ReplaceInventory AuditRelease Capacity ConfigurationAvailability Calculations enhanced to consider Backordered UnitsOrder TaggingPrioritization ImprovementsContact Center UI EnhancementsPersist Payment Attributes on Call Gateway ResponseDigital Self-Service - Extend Pickup WindowStore & Inventory FulfillmentRFID-enabled Store Inventory and Store FulfillmentIn-transit Inventory for Transfer/Pullback OrdersTechnical UpdatesPoint of SaleStore Customer EngagementPromotionsSupport Receipt Email CustomizationAndroid Support Order Management Enhanced Time Zone Support Users can now define the time zone for inventory locations and carrier scheduling regions. This enables the ability to configure all time-based location configuration in the context of time zone. The addition of time zone provides ability to: Configure location hours, carrier pick up times, capacity & capacity overrides in the context of the locations time zone Carrier scheduling and carrier scheduling overrides by region Scheduling considers Location/Carrier Time zone to compute the Forward scheduling dates (Earliest Ship Date, Earliest Delivery Date) and Backward scheduling dates (Latest Ship Date, Latest Release Date). Capacity scheduler will consider the location's time zone to compute if the scheduler previous run is eligible to perform the rollover activities for that location. Prior to 19.2, these date / time fields were assumed to be in UTC time zone, thus limiting the ability to support time zones that implement daylight savings time. Inventory Replace Inventory Supply event has been enhanced to support “replace” adjustment type. This enables the host system to send an absolute quantity update for an item / location along with a sequence number. In order to avoid processing older inventory messages in case of sequencing issue, out of sequence messages will not be processed. Inventory Audit Inventory Audit is a service designed to provide comprehensive visibility to the changes for the most critical entity attributes in Active Omni's inventory system. Entities includes Supply and its related entities like Supply Allocation, Reservation Request, Availability Status etc. When audit is enabled for these entities (by default not enabled), it will persist information on the old and new values for whatever attributes was changed, as well as who changed it. There is no UI to view the audited data, but information can be obtained via REST call based on query parameters. Example – Request can be made to fetch all the supply records that has its quantity, or any other key attribute changed in the last two days. There is no purge support for these audit data as part of this release. Release Capacity Configuration Configuration is provided to allow businesses to control the point in the order lifecycle to release store backlog capacity for additional orders. Store backlog capacity can now be configured to be made available when orders are picked, packed or shipped. Store backlog capacity is used when determining the current backlog of the store during fulfillment optimization capacity utilization percentage evaluation and when determining how much store capacity is already accounted for when determining the capacity available for the next shift. Fulfillment Optimization: Prioritize On-Hand supply types across locations This functionality provides the ability to define fulfillment strategies at a more granular level by including demand type in prioritization rules. Demand types are used to indicate which supply types to consider. If a demand type is included in the prioritization rule, that demand type is used instead of the demand type configured in the order configuration. If no demand type is specified on a prioritization rule, then the system will continue to use the demand type configured in the order configuration. This will allow prioritization tiers to be configured in a way that ensures all on-hand inventory is considered for the locations in the prioritization Tier, before considering any future inventory. Availability Calculations enhanced to consider Backordered Units Available to Commerce now considers backordered quantity for an item prior to publishing any outbound inventory messages such as inventory alerts, sync, or getAvailability responses. This parameter is added to ensure that availability considers existing demands and inventory alerts remove backordered units prior to determining if additional inventory can be published when new inventory becomes available. The inventory alert now considers the currently backordered quantity before publishing an alert so that the available quantity and status in the alert is accurate in the first alert generated. Order Tagging The Order Tagging feature provides the ability to tag orders based on transactional data attributes to build a business rules engine which can then be used for performing tasks, like hold orders for further CSR review, control allocation or fulfillment priority, review high priority customer orders for providing better service. Every time an order is created / bridged in or updated, order tagging service is invoked. Order tagging provides the capability to apply multiple order and order line tags individually when order and order line tag rules matches the order transactional data along with master data. These rules and criteria could be based on transaction attributes of the order or order lines and related master data attributes like item and customer, and will be executed at the order header or order line level. If an order matches a business rule, the order is tagged and can be blocked from progressing further through its lifecycle through custom extensions. The life cycle can include (applying or removing hold, block allocation, block release). When ever a tag is applied or removed from the order then modification rules can be configured to generate order o/b messages. Similarly when a tag is applied on order line then modification rules can be configured to generate order and order line o/b messages. And also if retailers wants to retrigger tagging service when ever they feel that the orders were wrongly tagged due wrong business rules setup. This is achieved by exposing the re-tagging API which accepts list of order IDs for tagging re-evaluation. Prioritization Improvements Order Prioritization Extensibility provides the ability to extend the attributes that can be used to calculate the Effective Rank (Priority) of an order line. Customers can add any extended attribute or additional base attribute of data type Date/Timestamp/Numeric from Order, Order Promising Info, Order Line and Order Line Promising Info to the pool of Prioritization Attributes, in addition to the base attributes available currently. If the value of any of the attribute selected in Fulfillment Prioritization Configuration - Prioritization Rules, used for calculating the Effective Rank for the Order Line is modified during the order cycle, customers can use Order Configuration - Modification Rules to trigger a mod-type event to execute user exit to implement custom logic for taking further actions required for example - reallocate the order. Contact Center UI Enhancements Label for Refund Gift Card in CS UI A refund gift card is provided to the customers as part of appeasement, return, or exchange order payment settlement. If an order is associated with a gift card, the CSR must be able to identify if the gift card has been purchased by the customer or it's provided as a refund. Now there is a visual indicator on the Item section of the Order Status UI screen which helps the CSR to visually identify that the item is a "Refund Gift Card". This indicator is also present in the Shipment Invoice sections of the Order Status page, next to the short description of the item and indicates whether the item is a refund gift card. Item Display - Size and Color Changes In the Call Center UI, the colors and sizes are displayed as tiles. Now users are provided with the flexibility to either have these displayed as tiles or as dropdowns. This is achieved with the help of an attribute - "Display As Dropdown" in the Call Center Configuration, which when turned on, displays the corresponding attribute (i.e size/color) as dropdown. Price Override indicator in Order Status Screen Whenever the price of an item in an order is overridden, the new price is represented in green color in the Order Status Screen to indicate the price override. Price Override History When the price of an item in an order was overridden, the "Override Price" pop-up previously showed "Current Price" and "Original Price", but past price overrides were not displayed. The "Override Price" pop-up has been enhanced to show the complete history of price overrides with the following details - Previous (Price), New (Price), Reason, Comments, Update By and Updated On. This gives complete visibility to the CSR of all price overrides for any item(s) in an Order. Deep Linking In our Contact Center UI, when a user logs in for the first time, they land on the home screen / CSR Dashboard depending on access rights.  If the user (who had not logged in) uses a direct link to a Contact Center UI screen (e.g Order Status, Item Search etc) they are being redirected to the home screen/CSR Dashboard and not the intended screen. With enablement of deep linking, post log-in, the user is redirected to the exact page provided in the URL. Note: Deep linking is currently enabled for Customer Service & Customer Engagement screens only (not Omnifacade or Masterdatafacade). View VAS on the Order Status We now provide the ability for a CSR to view the VAS options directly on an order from the Order Status screen, instead of going into the Edit Order screen to view them. This helps in reducing the call handling time for the CSR. Payment Authorization on Order Confirmation During the order create or edit flow the CSR captures payment details and there is a possibility that the call might get aborted after capturing the payment details and before confirmation of an order. In such a case, if the payment gets processed, then the CSR has to initiate a manual refund process which is very arduous. In order to handle this, an enhancement has been done to put a hold on processing of the payment transactions until the order gets confirmed. This is achieved with the help of a Call Center Configuration - "Hold Payment Transaction Till Confirmation" which when checked, puts a hold on processing the payments till confirmation of the order. Once the order is confirmed the payment transactions are un-held and processed for payment. Persist Payment Attributes on Call Gateway Response For payment methods and transactions, there are tables that are intended for projects to use when mapping fields specific to the payment gateway. The four tables include: payment method attributes, payment method encrypted attributes, payment transaction attributes, and payment transaction encrypted attributes. This enhancement enables these attributes to be saved in the payment component upon receiving a response from the third party payment gateway in the call gateway user exit. For example, if one payment gateway responds back with additional attributes 'batchId' and 'processorId' which do not exist on the payment method or transaction entities, then extended attributes can be added to map these attributes from the gateway response to the key-value pair entities. Digital Self-Service - Extend Pickup Window The Extend Pickup Window feature enables a customer to extend the pickup timeframe in store items by accessing Digital Self-Service from the comfort of their own mobile device. Typically, when a customer places an order to pick up in store, they receive an email when the items are ready for pickup. The customer is expected to come pick up the items at the store or the item will be put back on the shelf and available to other customers. If the customer cannot make it to the store to pick up their items in the original time period, they can click the 'Pick up later' button in the email, extend the pick up window, and pick up the items up at a later date. Store & Inventory Fulfillment RFID-enabled Store Inventory and Store Fulfillment Manhattan Store Inventory and Store Fulfillment can now use radio-frequency identification-based (RFID) inventory data in retail stores to significantly improve inventory accuracy, inventory visibility, and order fulfillment efficiency. This new capability utilizes fixed RFID readers that continuously read and locate RFID-tagged inventory. Manhattan delivers application program interfaces (APIs) to integrate with RFID solutions. These interfaces synchronize electronic product code (EPC) data that is read from each RFID-tagged item in the store with Manhattan Store Inventory and Store Fulfillment and the total Qty in Store to Manhattan Order Management. This synchronization of item-level EPC data enables retailers to publish highly accurate inventory levels, gain real-time visibility into precise inventory locations in the store through visual representations, and optimize store order fulfillment based on this accurate inventory information. This significantly improved store inventory accuracy and location-based inventory details help retailers reduce order pick times and shorts from the store, as well as enhance selling by exposing more accurate inventory availability information. Picking Leveraging RFID data for store inventory, Manhattan Store Fulfillment provides an optimal order pick sequence to store associates presented via a store map on the Store Fulfillment user interface. A sophisticated algorithm computes the optimal pick path by considering: The location of the picker The quantity and location of inventory for items on the picklist The proximity of inventory from the picker’s location The probability of finding a unit in its location (the RFID reader system prioritizes and suggests the use of locations with higher confidence reads) The solution groups items into pick locations based on store location coordinates (X, Y coordinates) of the item inventory. By leveraging EPC location-based inventory, store associates have visibility into the actual location of each unit in the store. For example, an associate can be directed to the changing room if needing to pick the last red dress for a specific size that was left there. A visual pick path is provided to associates to view on the picklist in the Store Fulfillment application. It displays the picking start point and all pick locations to be traversed. The store-level configuration allows for nearby pick locations to be clustered together and represented as a single point on the map, which helps improve picking efficiency. For example, multiple units of a SKU found on a rack may have slightly different X, Y coordinates in the RFID system but may be physically next to each other. These can be represented as a single consolidated pick location/stop, making the picking more efficient. Inventory Visibility With RFID-enabled store inventory, associates can view the location of all inventory on a store map. This visual representation of store inventory is available from the Picking and View Inventory functions, as well as the Point of Sale Item Details user interface. The inventory map displays the location of the inventory item and the quantity in that location. In-transit Inventory for Transfer/Pullback Orders In-transit inventory supply records are now created when a package is shipped from a store to another location. The receiving processes update the in-transit supply to on-hand. Technical Updates Support for the Zebra TC52 device on Android Oreo has been added. Point of Sale Store Customer Engagement Enhanced Order Details Enhanced Order Details Quick view – Store associates need to be on par with CSR’s, but do not have the luxury of sitting down at a desk in front of a large screen. They are always on the move and multi-tasking. In order to better arm in-store associates with up-to-the-minute information about their customer’s journey, we have added new features that will put store associates on equal footing with contact center representatives while maintaining our highly rated, intuitive, “on your feet and moving” user interface. Customers with outstanding orders will be met by well-informed store associates who can now help coordinate order changes or perform context-based upselling. The new features support snapshot visibility to: Customer engagement now provides retailers a more in depth view of their customers.  With new visibility to customer order details, retailers can now have a more informed, real time view of their customers purchases. Traditionally if a customer had a question regarding the status of their order, or an item within their order, they were required to reach out to the retailer's customer service or call center team.  Now, the associates within the store can assist customers with these types of questions, therefore providing a more cohesive customer experience regardless of who is assisting them. The additional details will show: Item fulfillment status: In Progress, Picked, Packed, Fulfilled, Returned, Back Ordered are some examples. Item shipment status: Open, In Progress or Completed ETA for ship to address orders. If the carrier does not have this available, then the ETA will be the earliest allocation date for the order. Additional items within the shipment Tracking details button When selected, the tracking view will open to provide detailed tracking information provided by the carrier. Payment Methods For any tender that is authorized but not yet settled, there will be an indication stating authorized. All other tenders will be settled. Promotions Mix and Match Promotions The current promotions capability has been extended to allow retailers to set up Mix and Match promotions.  For combo item deals, retailers will now have the ability to create deals with a combination of qualifiers, possibly from the same category level, or from various categories, to qualify. Details: Retailers can add additional qualifiers to a new deal Possible targets and benefits will be available based on the qualifiers selected Inclusion and exclusions can be set for each item qualifier Additional target has been added to restrict the benefit to only the qualifying items Promotion deals based on payment type This feature provides the ability to configure and execute promotion deals based on the payment types. Most of the retailers have their own cards which can be used to make payment at their stores.  Though PLCC (Private Label Credit Card) is the most often used, the current implementation does not limit to a single tender types, though it is not a frequent possibility. Implementation details: This feature is configuration driven.  A new flag is introduced under Promotion Global parameters.  This should be set to True, to evaluate promotion based on the payment type. Payment type is added as a Qualifier under Promotion configuration. Payment deal can be applied on Item/Order/Shipping deals. Payment promotion deal is evaluated at the time of checkout, when the customer chooses the payment type and presents the revised Balance Due. This is applicable to Orders across all channels. Selective Stackability The existing promotions is extended to allow retailers to exclude applying specific deals (usually a stackable deal but not limited to it) based on configurations. This is applicable to combo item, single item, combo order deals which can be stackable or non-stackable and can be defined across deal type. For example, user can configure a stackable order deal to be excluded when a item or order deal is applied. Selective stackability does not work with shipping promotion deals. Please find the implementation/configuration details below. This feature is based on configuration driven out of deals, tags and tags exclusions. User can create deals (Combo Item or Combo Order or Single item deals) which are stackable or non-stackable, or use existing deals. And create tags  i.e. tag name and description. Associate tags created above to deals which needs to be mutual exclusive. For example, If user has a created non-stackable deal1 and stackable deal2 and when deal1 is applied, user want deal2 to not be stacked on deal 1, then user can associate deal1 to tag1 and deal2 to tag2 and make the tags mutual exclusive. Mutual exclusive can be defined through tags, by defining tag 2 in the exclusion list of tag 1. Return Match Enhancements The returned items can be matched to the receipts based on Price and/or age. Additionally, price rank can be used to use a particular rank while matching the return items to the receipt (Order) when the same item exists in mutliple Order/Orderlines. Details: Based on the Price Criteria , the returned item is matched with the receipt ( Order/ Orderlines) with the lowest or highest selling price If selling price is same between the order lines, age criteria is used to match the returned Item. Age criteria can be set to oldest or newest. Price rank, if set,  is used on top of the price criteria to match the returned items present in multiple order lines. Support Receipt Email Customization Instead of base email receipts, retailers can use their own email providers to customize the receipt emails sent to their customer. For transactions that trigger email, a detailed receipt information with order details is published as an outbound message. This data in the outbound json could be used to send a customized email to the customer. Android Support This release will now support AO-Store POS application to make payments through MX terminal, communicate cash drawers and printers on android devices. The existing plugin for payment, cash drawer and printer are modified to extend the support to android TC52 devices. For details on android OS version and hardware version, please check Supported Technology page.