# Reservations from Cache

**Permalink:** reservationsfromcache
**Content Length:** 4,377 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:33:54.912441

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Promising&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Interactive Inventory ››Reservations from Cache Reservations from Cache Previous&nbsp;I&nbsp;Next &nbsp; OverviewConfigurationImplementation FlavorsRelated Articles Overview Classic &ldquo;HOT SKU&rdquo;&nbsp;Problem: When a reservation is made for a hot-selling SKU from a website, there is a possibility that the&nbsp;supply updates fail due to database locking caused by&nbsp;concurrent updates to the same supply record for every reservation request. This can cause some reservation failures, which can sometimes lead to loss of sales depending on how the selling channels handle reservation failures. In addition, there is also a significant time involved in retrying these transactions internally due to failures, which can cause the calling system to time out at their end. Similar problems arise when the same location capacity optimization is updated very frequently. The capacity utilization update may fail because of database locking. This can lead to capacity utilization records being inaccurate and the system sending too many or too few orders to the stores.&nbsp; Configuration The configuration to turn on hot SKU functionality&nbsp;is available in&nbsp;Interactive Inventory Parameters. The &ldquo;IsHotSkuEnabled&rdquo; flag in the Interactive Inventory Parameters is set to &ldquo;true&rdquo;,&nbsp;causing&nbsp;the supply and capacity updates to be deferred. Refer to Interactive Inventory Parameters on how to configure this from UI and the corresponding grants involved. Save Interactive Inventory Parameters - Hot SKU EnabledPOST:&nbsp;/inventory/api/inventory/interactiveInventoryParameters/save BODY: { &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;IsHotSkuEnabled&quot;: true, &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;InteractiveInvParameterId&quot;: &quot;defaultInteractiveInvParameters&quot; } Implementation Flavors NA. Related Articles Delivery Dates ServicesOverviewMetrics DashboardDelivery Date Performance Dashboard &nbsp;