# Retain Cart

**Permalink:** retain-cart
**Content Length:** 12,979 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:35:28.839180

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Point of Sale&rsaquo;&rsaquo;POS Guides ››Retain Cart Retain Cart &nbsp; Retain CartBehaviorEnablementUse Cases &nbsp; When a user navigates away from POS, the system preserves the current cart state, ensuring that all relevant details remain available when the user returns. This functionality was created to&nbsp;prevent&nbsp;the loss of cart progress due to navigation actions. The retained cart state includes: Applied discounts Attached customers Item quantities Selected item(s) Ship to address item(s) Store pickup&nbsp;item(s) Once user presses&nbsp;checkout and invoice is created, retained cart feature will no longer be available.&nbsp;Once an order is canceled, it cannot be resumed when the user navigates back to the cart page. The system will treat canceled orders as final, requiring the user to initiate a new order if they wish to purchase items again. Note: Retain cart is only activated when items are added to cart. Behavior Cart Persistence Users can freely navigate away from the cart page without losing their selected items and cart details. Upon returning, the cart will be restored with all the items that were scanned before ( Cart Mode) Configurable timer to set amount of time for item(s) to be retained in cart, will be started once user navigates away from POS. Handling Canceled Orders If a user cancels an order, it will not be available for retrieval. Users must add items to the cart again to proceed with a new order. &nbsp; Enablement See POS Cart Configuration guide Retain Cart timer section. &nbsp; Use Cases Scenario Items in Retain in Cart User navigates from POS to other Inventory functions Yes User adds item to cart, store pickup order and ship to address order Yes User applies partial&nbsp;payment to transaction No User navigates away from the receipt screen No User in return mode Yes User in return mode when navigating away from the receipt screen No User clears the&nbsp;app Yes User performs post void No User logs out No User reaches timer expiration No User still within timer configuration Yes User performs offline transaction No User performs large order (120&nbsp;line item limit), then navigates away from POS Yes User performs exchange tender No Inactivity logout before retain cart timer expiration (All logouts will always wipe POS into an empty state) No Retain cart timer expiration after inactivity timeout No User performs BOPIS order No User performs Deep link order Yes User performs GC activation/reload Yes User navigates away from POS with expanded cart Yes, but POS reverts back to original cart view &nbsp; We do NOT allow refreshing of deep link orders