# Return Variance

**Permalink:** return-variance
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Order Management/Process & Configuration Guides/Returns & Exchanges/Return Variance
**Content Length:** 31,188 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:59:09.314098

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Order Management››Process & Configuration Guides››Returns & Exchanges ››Return Variance Return Variance Previous | Next OverviewItem VarianceQuantity VarianceCondition VarianceVariance CombinationsResolving VariancesItem VarianceCondition VarianceQuantity VarianceLine VarianceConfigurationAuto ResolutionHow to Test VariancesImplementation FlavorsFlag a new/updated return order with variance hold (without the receipt/verification process)Related Articles Overview A return variance occurs when the items received by the return center do not match the expected items. There are three types of variances that exist: Item variance Quantity variance Condition variance Item Variance When a return center completes the verification process, any unexpected item, regardless of whether it's a part of the original parent order (Example 1 below) or not (Example 2 below), is considered as Item variance. In such cases, the Manhattan Active® Order Management System will create these unexpected items as new lines in the Return Order with item variance hold. Also, for an expected item in a return order, if quantity variance is determined, any excess quantities that cannot be adjusted from the original parent line will be treated as item variance and a new line is created for the extra verified quantity in the return order with item variance hold. Refer to example 3 below. Example: Customer order with Item A and Item B with 2 quantities each, a return order is initiated for Item A. However, when the items are received at the return center, both the items, Item A and Item B, are received and verified. When the return order verification is processed, a new line with Item B up to 2 quantities is added to the existing return order. Customer order with Item A and Item B with 2 quantities each, a return order is initiated for Item A. However, when the items are received at the return center, three items, Item A, Item B and Item C for 2 quantities are received and verified. When the return order verification is processed, two new lines with Item B up to 2 quantities and Item C with 2 quantities are added to the existing return order. Customer order with Item A and Item B with 2 quantities each, a return order is initiated for Item A with 1 quantity. However, when the item is received at the return center, Item A with 3 quantities is received and verified. When the return order verification is processed, a new line with Item A for 1 quantity is added to the existing return order. Quantity Variance When a return center completes the verification process, any unexpected quantity, regardless of whether it's less than the expected number of units of a given item in the return order (Example 1 below) or greater than the expected number of units of a given item in the return order but less than the number of units ordered as part of the original parent order (Example 2 below) is considered as Quantity variance. In such cases, If the Return Verification Policy is return order, the Manhattan Active® Order Management System will update the order line quantity with the verified quantity, variance quantity is updated, and quantity variance hold is applied on the line if the "Auto Resolve Quantity Variance" is not configured. If the Return Verification Policy is Return Line, the Manhattan Active® Order Management System will put the order line on quantity variance hold only if the verified quantity is less than the return order line quantity. If the verified quantity is greater than the expected number of units of a given item in the return order but less than the number of units ordered as part of the original parent order the order line quantity is updated with the verified quantity, the variance quantity is updated, and quantity variance is applied on the line. Note: Auto Resolve Quantity Variance is not supported when the "Return Verification Policy is Return Line". The quantity variance has to be resolved manually. Example: Customer order with Item A and Item B with 2 quantities each, a return order is initiated for Item A with 2 quantities. However, when the items are received at the return center, Item A is received and verified for 1 quantity. When the return order verification is processed, the return order line quantity is updated to 1. When the return order line verification is processed, the return order line quantity remains as is 2. Customer order with Item A and Item B with 2 quantities each, a return order is initiated for Item A with 2 quantities. However, when the items are received at the return center, Item A with 3 quantities is received and verified. When the return order or return line verification is processed, the return order line quantity is updated to 3. Customer order with Item A and Item B with 2 quantities each, a return order is initiated for Item A with 2 quantities. However, when the items are received at the return center, Item A with 0 quantities is received and verified. When the return order verification is processed, the return order line quantity is updated to 0 and the line is canceled. When the return order line verification is processed, the return order line quantity remains as is 2. Condition Variance When a return center completes the verification process, if a package contains an item whose condition is not the same as that mentioned by the customer at the time of the creation of the return order, it is considered as a condition variance (Example below). In such case, the Manhattan Active® Order Management System will put the line on hold and manual intervention is required for the refund process to be completed. Example: Customer order with Item A and Item B with 2 quantities each, a return order is initiated for Item A with good condition. However, when the items are received at the return center, Item A is received and verified for 1 quantity as damaged and another quantity as good. When the return order verification is processed, the return order line quantity is put on hold with condition variance. Note: If a return is automated and no return order existed before items were received, then a condition variance is not applicable. However, a quantity variance can occur if the received quantity is more than what is eligible for return on the parent order or an item variance can occur if the received item is not part of the parent order. Variance Combinations Variance analysis occurs after the return order is verified for ship to return center order lines. Variances are analyzed for each return line, and each line can have multiple types of variances. For example, a line can have a quantity and condition variance. Here are a few examples of other types of combination variances that can occur on an order line. Resolving Variances When a quantity, condition or item variance without auto-resolve is identified, the return line is automatically put on hold, and return variance details are saved on the line to indicate what type of variance exists. Once the variance is identified, it can be resolved manually or automatically. Under certain conditions, quantity variances and item variances can be auto-resolved without CSR intervention. Variances which require manual intervention need to be resolved by a CSR. These variances can be identified by return lines which are on hold. Variance holds that allow automatic resolution include: Item variance* Quantity variance** *Returned item must be part of the original parent order for the hold to be auto-resolved. **Quantity variance must have manual intervention when the received quantity is greater than the expected quantity and the extra received units are not eligible for return on the parent order. In such case, the line is held as an Item Variance and has to be manually resolved by CSR. Refer below on how to resolve an item variance manually. Item Variance Item variances cannot be auto resolved and can only be manually resolved. In the Contact center, there are two types of variances that a CSR can come across: 1. The item(s) that is being returned is unexpected but is part of the parent order: The CSR can either cancel the order and ask the customer to send the expected item(s) and initiate a new return order with expected quantities. The CSR can process the order as it is (a refund will be calculated for the original item(s) that the return was created for and the unexpected item(s) received). The CSR can cancel the order line for the unexpected item(s)from the order and refund the customer only for the valid item(s). On canceling the order line for the unexpected item from the order line list UI in the omnifacade, the order total will be recalculated based on the original item, following which the CSR can process the return. The CSR can also choose to cancel the order line for the originally expected item from the order line list UI in the omnifacade and the order total will be recalculated but not refunded as the line is on hold. CSR can manually remove the hold on the unexpected item line from the order line list UI to get it refunded. The item variance hold can be auto-resolved, allowing the return invoice to be generated without any manual intervention. 2. The item(s) that is being returned is unexpected but is not part of the parent order: If the received item is not part of the parent order, in such cases the CSR can still choose to cancel the order and request for the correct item. The CSR can process the order to refund the customer based on the originally quoted refund amount for the expected item(s) (in this case the price of the incorrect item will not go through any pricing and hence will not be included in the refund amount). Condition Variance Condition variances cannot be auto resolved and require manual resolve. When a condition variance occurs, the return line is automatically put on hold and manual intervention is required. For manual resolution, the order can be canceled, or the order line hold can be removed and refunded/processed based on the eligible item(s). Note: In the case of automated return flow, condition variance does not exist because there is no return order created prior to automated receipts. Quantity Variance Quantity variances can be resolved either automatically by the system or manually by a user. If the return order event of type "LineVerification" is sent by Manhattan Active® Store Inventory Management or any external Store or Warehouse Management, Auto Resolve Quantity Variance will be ignored, and any quantity variance will have to be resolved manually. Only the following two types of quantity variances can be automatically resolved without user intervention: 1. Quantity variance where the received quantity is less than the expected quantity: In these scenarios, the line quantity is reduced to the verified quantity and the line totals are re-calculated for the new quantity. The parent line returnable quantity is increased. For example, a customer said they would return 2 units of an item which has a $30 unit price and $10 S&H being refunded, for a line total of $70. When only 1 unit is received, then the order line quantity is updated to 1 and the S&H becomes $5 after being prorated for the new quantity, so the new line total is $35. In case the return invoice is generated on carrier scan status, a charge back invoice will be generated for the quantity that was invoiced and refunded in the return invoice. For example: If a return order has a return line with isReturnExpected = true with 10 quantities and invoicing on carrier scanned status is enabled, the return invoice is generated for 10 quantities when the return line moves to carrier scanned status. Later, when the package is received and verified in the return DC, if only 8 qty is received and verified, a charge back invoice is created for the 2 qty for which a refund was issued in excess by prorating the dollar amount from the return invoice created earlier. A charge back invoice is generated only when the received and the verified quantity is less than the expected quantity, resulting in quantity variance. Any other type of variance like condition variance and item variance, including quantity variance where the received and verified quantity is more than expected quantity will not generate a charge back invoice. 2. Quantity variance where the received quantity is greater than the expected quantity, and the extra received units are eligible for return on the parent order: In these scenarios, the line quantity is increased to the received quantity and the line totals are re-calculated for the new quantity. The parent line returnable quantity is decreased.  For example, a customer said they would return 2 units of an item which has $30 unit price and $10 S&H being refunded, for a line total of $70. When 3 units are received, and the third unit is eligible for return on the parent order, then the order line quantity is updated to 3 and the S&H becomes $15 after being prorated for the new quantity, so the new line total is $105. If auto-resolve is enabled for quantity variances, then return lines with the above two types of variances are not put on hold and the return invoice will be generated with no manual intervention. To enable manual approval of these variances, auto-resolve can be disabled. Any return line that qualifies for quantity variance will be put on 'QuantityVariance' hold, which will block return invoice creation. CSR can manually remove the hold on such a line from the omnifacade order line list UI to initiate the refund. Line Variance When a return order event of type Verification is processed by the system for a return order, if one or more return order lines are still in pending return status and do not have any quantities processed via return order event of type receipt prior, "AutoResolveLineVariance" can be configured which will cancel the lines which are never received/verified. MA Order Management system will update the order line quantity of such lines to Zero(0). If the return order event of type "LineVerification" is sent by Manhattan Active® Store Inventory Management or MA Warehouse Management or any external Store or Warehouse Management, Auto Resolve Line Variance will be ignored. Configuration Auto Resolution Auto resolve of quantity variance can be enabled using the 'Auto Resolve Quantity Variance' flag in the returns and exchanges section of the Order Configuration. This flag indicates whether return lines having Quantity Variance should be resolved automatically or put on hold for manual approval. Auto resolve of item variance can be enabled using the 'Auto Resolve Item Variance' flag in the returns and exchanges section of the Order Configuration. This flag indicates whether return lines having Item Variance should be resolved automatically or put on hold for manual approval. Auto resolve line variance can be enabled using the 'Auto Resolve Line Variance' flag in the returns and exchanges section of the Order Configuration. This flag indicates whether pending return lines should be canceled automatically or not. If the Return Verification Policy is configured to "Return Line", Auto Resolve Quantity Variance and Auto Resolve Line Variance configurations will be ignored and any quantity variance and line variance will have to be resolved manually. How to Test Variances Click here for sample scenarios to test Variances Below is an example to try out an item variance scenario, where an order was placed for item A and item B and a return is expected for item A, but the customer sends out item B instead. Prerequisite: Create a fulfilled parent order for Item A and Item B Step1: Use the Create return order API to create a return order for the parent order created above. Ensure to mention the correct parent order Id and the expected item (itemA) details on return order creation. Step2: Use the Return order event - Receipt API to receive the item for return. While sending the return order Receipt API, mention the correct parent and return order Ids and unexpected item (itemB) details on the request. Step3: Use the Return order event - Verification API to verify the item for return. Observations: After the receipt and verification of the unexpected order is completed, it can be seen that the return order will have two order lines; one for the expected item and another line for the unexpected item (itemB). The order line for the unexpected item will be created because the item variance is true, and this line will be put on hold automatically. Note: The same APIs can be used to test the condition variance and quantity variance scenarios, keeping in mind the minor variations that need to be incorporated in the above-mentioned scenarios respectively. For example, to test the condition variance in the above example, make sure to create a return for item A in 'new" condition and send Item Id as item A and condition as 'Damaged' in the receipt and verification API process. This will result in a condition variance. To test the quantity variance make sure to create a return for '1' quantity of item A and send Item Id as item A and quantity as '2 ' in the receipt and verification process, this will be a quantity variance. Create return order API{ "IsConfirmed": true, "OrderType": { "OrderTypeId": "CallCenter Order" }, "OrderId": "", "DocType": { "DocTypeId": "CustomerOrder" }, "SellingChannel": { "SellingChannelId": "CallCenter" }, "OrderLine": [ { "OrderLineAdditional": { "ReturnReason": "Damaged", "ItemCondition": { "ItemConditionId": "New" } }, "DeliveryMethod": { "DeliveryMethodId": "ShipToReturnCenter" }, "ShippingMethodId": "Returns_Ground", "ShipToLocationId": "globalorg100-us:AtlantaDC", "ReturnType": { "ReturnTypeId": "Refund" }, "Quantity": "1", "UOM": "U", "IsReturn": true, "ParentOrderId": "CC10249", "ParentOrderLineId": "1", "ReturnOrderLineId": "1", "ItemId": "Tops-13153-Blue-L", "IsReceiptExpected": true } ] } Return order event - Receipt{ "ExternalMessageId": "121220899601611856", "ReturnOrderEvent": [{ "ExternalMessageId": "121220869961105186", "EventTypeId": "Receipt", "ReturnOrderLineId": "1", "ReturnOrderId": "CC000-35256350958891351223737", "ParentOrderId": "CC10249", "ItemId": "Tops-19691-Blue-L", "Quantity": "1", "UOM": "U", "ReceivedItemCondition": { "ItemConditionId":"New" }, "IsGiftReturn": false, "ReturnDate": "2016-05-30T00:00:00", "ReturnType": { "ReturnTypeId": "Refund" } }  ] } Return order event - Verification{ "ExternalMessageId": "121220899601611856", "ReturnOrderEvent": [{ "ExternalMessageId": "121220869961105186", "EventTypeId": "Verification", "ReturnOrderLineId": "1", "ReturnOrderId": "CC000-35256350958891351223737", "ParentOrderId": "CC10249", "ItemId": "Tops-19691-Blue-L", "Quantity": "1", "UOM": "U", "ReceivedItemCondition": { "ItemConditionId":"New" }, "Extended": {}, "IsGiftReturn": false, "ReturnDate": "2016-05-30T00:00:00", "ReturnType": { "ReturnTypeId": "Refund" } }  ] } Implementation Flavors Flag a new/updated return order with variance hold (without the receipt/verification process) Requirement: How to flag a newly created or updated return with an Item Condition so that the "Condition Variance" hold is added to the return, preventing a refund to the customer. Implementation: This can be accomplished using a user exit. The return order creation/updates will follow the customer order user exit as well. So you can use the Order:Order:UserExit:PreCreate UserExit. The order type of the order can be used to check if it is a return order. Related Articles Returns OverviewREST APIs and User ExitsTroubleshooting Returns & ExchangesReturn Label Tracking Return Labels How Returns WorkExchangesReturns Shipped to Distribution Center