# Return Configurations

**Permalink:** return_exchange_configurations
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Order Management/UI Help/Returns & Exchanges/Return and Exchange Configurations
**Content Length:** 31,488 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:00:10.863495

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Order Management››UI Help››Returns & Exchanges ››Return Configurations Return and Exchange Configurations Enable Return LabelCarrier Shipping MethodCarrier Facility AccountEvaluate Receipt Not ExpectedReturns with Receipt not ExpectedReturn AgeRefund Shipping & Handling ChargeReturn Verification PolicyAuto VerificationReturnable QuantityReturn MatchReturn FeeRe-Price Even ExchangeExchange HoldsAuto Resolve Line VarianceAuto Resolve Quantity VarianceAllow Return By Cancelling Existing Pending Return Orders Enable Return Label Ensure that the return label parameter is configured to generate return shipping labels. Refer to Return Labels for more details. To enable return label, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Parameters. In the Order Parameters page, to view the details of an existing parameter, select an order parameter and click View. To add a new order parameter, click Add. In the Details tab, select the Generate Return Label On Confirm check box. Carrier Shipping Method To enable the shipping method for return shipping, perform the following steps. Refer to the Carriers section for more details. Navigate to Menu > Master Data > Manage Carriers > Carrier Shipping Methods. In the Carrier Shipping Method page, to view the details of an existing shipping method, select a shipping method and click View. To add a new shipping method, click Add. In the Details tab, set the Return Shipping Method to true. Carrier Facility Account To configure the facility account number for return center, perform the following steps. Refer to the Carriers section for more details. Navigate to Menu > Master Data > Manage Carriers > Carrier Facility Accounts. In the Facility Accounts page, to view the details of an existing facility account, select a facility account and click View. To add a new facility account, click Add. In the Facility Code enter the unique code of the return shipping center. Evaluate Receipt Not Expected Retailers can define when certain items should not be returned based on dollar value. Refer to Receipt Not Expected based on Dollar Value Threshold for more details. Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Configuration In the Returns section of the Returns and Exchanges tab, see the Evaluate Receipt Not Expected table: Provide a name in the Return Config Override Id column. Define the selling channel in the Selling Chanel column. You can have one threshold record per selling channel. Chose the threshold level in the Evaluate Receipt Not Expected by ID column. The threshold can be set at the order or order line. If at the order line, the system will consider the threshold per line. If at the order level, the system will consider the threshold for the entire order. Provide the dollar value for the threshold in the Evaluate Receipt Not Expected Threshold Value column. Returns with Receipt not Expected Returns with receipt not expected requires either manual or automatic approval for a return credit. Refer to How Does Return Work for more details. To configure auto approval if receipt is not expected, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Configuration In the Returns section of the Returns and Exchanges tab, If the Auto Approve If Receipt is Not Expected check box is selected,  on confirmation of return the order lines will move to Returned status and a return invoice can be created. If the Auto Approve If Receipt is Not Expected check box is not selected, on confirmation of return the order lines will move to Pending Approval status. To move the line from Pending Approval to Returned and process the invoice, the line should be manually approved. If the line is not approved, then no refund/return credit is issued. Return Age These configurations enable you to set the number of days the item will be eligible for return after it is sold. For return line with delivery method as store sale, the number of eligible days is calculated from the order line created date. However, for all the other delivery methods, it is based on either the "ShippedDate" or the "DeliveredDate" option selected . Refer to How Does Return Work for more details. Option 1: To configure the number of days eligible for return by setting 'Days of eligible return' (Order Type Level) and choosing the return age calculation based on either the "ShippedDate" or the "DeliveredDate", perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Configuration In the Returns section of the Returns and Exchanges tab, enter the Days for Eligible Return. Next to return age configuration, select "ShippedDate" or "DeliveredDate" in the From drop-down. Option 2: To configure the number of days eligible return based on the order/order line attributes by entering return age rules and choosing the return age calculation based on either the "ShippedDate" or the "DeliveredDate", perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Configuration In the Returns section of the Returns and Exchanges tab, next to the return age configuration, select "ShippedDate" or "DeliveredDate" in the From drop-down. Next to "ShippedDate" or "DeliveredDate" in the From drop-down, click on the Return Age Rules button and enter return age rules in plain language. Click on the Validate button to evaluate the entered return age rules. If there is no error in the provided return age rules, click on Save button. Refund Shipping & Handling Charge The Do not refund Shipping & Handling charge attribute enables you to control the refund of shipping and handling charges for the return order. Refer to How Does Return Work for more details. To configure the refund shipping and handling charges, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Configuration In the Returns section of the Returns and Exchanges tab, select the Do Not Refund Shipping & Handling Charge check box to disable the refund of S&H charges during returns. Note that the taxes/discounts against S&H also cannot be refunded. Note: Do not refund charges is applicable only for pure return or refund. It is not applicable for exchange order. Return Verification Policy Return Verification Policy determines the way return verification is processed. It indicates the mode of verification for return orders. To configure the return verification policy, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Configuration In the Returns section of the Returns and Exchanges tab, select an option from the Return Verification Policy drop-down. The options available are: Return Order - With the Return Order option, return order verification can be performed only once for a return order line and one single return invoice will be generated after all the return lines are successfully verified. This is the default option. Return Line - With the Return Line option, multiple return order verification can be performed, and the system will trigger generation of one single return invoice for each return order line that has been completely verified. Any modification in the configuration will impact the return receiving process and may impact existing return orders which are not yet processed completely. Please discuss with Manhattan Services or R&D team before changing the existing configurations. Null / blank configuration is considered as Return Order. If the Return Verification Policy is configured to "Return Line", Auto Resolve Quantity Variance and Auto Resolve Line Variance configurations will be ignored and any quantity variance and line variance will have to be resolved manually. If the Return Verification Policy is configured to "Return Line", Return Order Events of type Receipt and Verification cannot be processed. Only Return Order Event of type "LineVerificaiton" can be processed. Auto Verification If the Return Invoice configuration is configured for generating a return invoice on Carrier Scanned status, there may be a scenario wherein a return invoice is created for a return order and the refund processed on the carrier scanned status. But it may so happen that the return lines are never verified because of various reasons, like packages lost by the carrier in transit etc. In such cases, the return order will be in limbo without reaching its terminal status. In such cases, the retailer may configure - DaysForAutoVerification - so that the system automatically creates return order verification for all the return lines with isReceiptExpected = true and all the quantities of the return line in the carrier scanned status (14000) and process it automatically after the configured number of days have elapsed from the date of creation of return invoice on carrier scanned status. Note: Use the below API to configure auto verification. Currently, UI is not available for this configuration. {{url}}/order/api/order/orderConfig/save { "ReturnConfig": { "DaysForAutoVerification": 180 }, "Description": "Order configuration for Ecom Orders", "OrderConfigId": "EcommConfig" } Currently, charge back is not supported by the system for auto verification. The current behaviour only supports accepting the refund and closing the return order lines by automatically verifying the return line quantities without any intervention from the return center. Stocks are not updated when the system verifies the return lines automatically. This process is irreversible once done. Returnable Quantity The order line returnable quantity is determined based on the minimum allowed status and maximum allowed status in the Return and Exchanges tab of the Order Configuration page. Refer to How Does Return Work for more details. To configure returnable quantity, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Configuration In the Returns section of the Returns and Exchanges tab, select the minimum allowed and maximum allowed status from the corresponding drop-down. Note: Any quantity details in a status greater than or equal to Min Allowed Status and less than or equal to the Max Allowed Status for return is included in the order line Returnable Quantity attribute. Return Match Return match items to the order can be configured based on price and age criteria. Refer to How Does Return Work for more details. To configure return match, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Configuration In the Returns section of the Returns and Exchanges tab, you can select the Match return item to order by as price or age by selecting the following options: Price - Select the Price check box to display the Price Criteria and Price Rank. Select the Price Criteria as Highest or Lowest  to match the items to the order line having the highest selling price or lowest selling price. Select the Price Rank to match the item when multiple order lines are involved during a return. Age - Select the Age check box to display the Age Criteria. Set the age criteria as Newest or Oldest to match item with newest order or oldest order. Return Fee Return Fee enables you to configure return fees at order level and line level. The return fee can either be flat or percentage based. Refer to How Does Return Work for more details. To configure return fee, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Configuration. In the Order Return Fee section of the Returns and Exchanges tab, you can configure the order level return fees. You can perform the following options: Add: To add a new return fee, click Add New Return Fee. Enter the return fee details such as Return Fee Config Id, Fee Name, Description, Fee Type, Value, Order Type, Selling Channel, and Customer Type. Edit: To edit an existing return fee, click the  icon against the configured return fee and make the necessary changes. Delete: To delete an existing return fee, click the  icon against the configured return fee. Similarly, to configure return line level fees, in the Line Return Fee section of the Returns and Exchanges tab, click Add New Return Fee and enter the return fee details. To edit and delete the existing return line level fee, click the and  icons respectively against the configured return fee and make the changes. Re-Price Even Exchange This feature allows you to enable or disable repricing of even exchange order line. Refer to Exchanges for more details. To configure reprice even exchange, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Configuration In the Exchange section of the Returns and Exchanges tab, select the Re-price Even Exchange Lines check box to price the even exchange based on the current retail price and the charge rates whether it has increased or decreased since the original order was placed. Exchange Holds The exchange hold configuration enables the exchange lines to be put on hold until the return items are received by the return centers. Refer to Exchanges for more details. To configure exchange holds, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Configuration In the Exchange section of the Returns and Exchanges tab, In the Status to Unhold Exchange Line drop-down, select the status of the return items to indicate the status the return item must reach for exchange items to be released for fulfillment. In the Exchange Line Hold Type drop-down, select the type of hold which is applied when exchange lines need to be put on hold while waiting for return items to be received. In the Exchange Line Hold Type For Variance drop-down, select the type of hold which is applied when exchange lines need to be put on hold when there is a variance on the return line. Auto Resolve Line Variance This feature enables you to auto resolve all the return order lines and process the return orders even if the return order event of type verification is not processed for the return order lines. To configure auto resolve line variance, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Configuration In the Returns section of the Returns and Exchanges tab, if the Auto Resolve Line Variance check box is selected, when return order event of type verification is processed by the system for a return order, and if one or more return order lines are still in pending return status and does not have any quantities processed via return order event of type receipt, this configuration enables the system to automatically update quantity of such lines to zero (0) by assuming that return will never be received for the return order lines still in pending return status, so that the return order can be processed further. If this configuration is not set to true, the return order cannot be processed further until return order event of type verification is not processed for all the return order lines. If the Return Verification Policy is configured to "Return Line" Auto Resolve Line Variance configuration will be ignored and any line variance will have to be resolved manually. Auto Resolve Quantity Variance This feature enables you to auto-resolve the return lines having quantity variance. The variance will be resolved automatically or put on hold for manual approval. To configure auto resolve quantity variance, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Configuration In the Returns section of the Returns and Exchanges tab, If the Auto Resolve Quantity Variance check box is selected, any return line that qualifies for quantity variance will not be put on hold and a refund invoice will be generated based on the final quantity. If the Auto Resolve Quantity Variance check box is not selected, any return line that qualifies for quantity variance will be put on 'QuantityVariance' Hold, which will block refund invoice creation. Allow Return By Cancelling Existing Pending Return Orders This feature provides you the ability to create new return orders by cancelling the existing pending return orders. Refer to Return Order Creation section for more details. To configure this flag, perform the following steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Order Configuration > Order Configuration In the Return section of the Returns and Exchanges tab, select the following options from the Allow Return by Cancelling drop-down: Pending Items - If Pending Items is selected pending, then all the matching pending return lines and non-released exchange lines are cancelled. Pending Order - If Pending Order is selected, then all the pending return lines and non-released exchange lines are cancelled. Note: The existing return orders can be cancelled only if the following conditions are met: The order configuration of the parent order should have the "Pending Order" option selected in the Allow Return By Cancelling drop-down. The return order should have Receipt Expected set to "yes". The return order should be confirmed. Note: The existing return orders can be cancelled only if the following conditions are met: The order configuration of the parent order should have the "Pending Order" option selected in the Allow Return By Cancelling drop-down. The return order should have Receipt Expected set to "yes". The return order should be confirmed. Note: When a parent organization and child organization exist and the "Allow Return By Cancelling Existing Pending Return Orders" feature is enabled, make sure the order configuration is set up at the highest parent level to prevent returnable quantity discrepancies.