# Returns Dashboard

**Permalink:** returns-dashboard
**Content Length:** 20,811 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:36:51.064883

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Supply Chain Intelligence&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Supply Chain Intelligence - Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Dashboards ››Returns Dashboard Returns Dashboard &nbsp; OverviewReturn&nbsp;Orders Metrics Tab Filters&nbsp;in&nbsp;Return&nbsp;Orders Metrics TabMetrics in Return&nbsp;Orders Metrics TabVisualizations in&nbsp;Return&nbsp;Orders Metrics TabReturn&nbsp;Order Line Metrics TabFilters&nbsp;in&nbsp;Return&nbsp;Order Line Metrics TabVisualizations in Return&nbsp;Order Line Metrics Tab Overview Tracking and Monitoring return&nbsp;orders helps product management understand and analyze&nbsp;customer trends towards order returns and take measures to efficiently manage them. Operational SCI for Manhattan Active&reg; Omni includes the Returns Dashboard to analyze the order returns through multiple channels such as Web, Store, Call, and Self-Serve and their reasons. This dashboard contains a) Return Order Metrics and b) Return Order Line Metrics tabs. This also has a data range in the title bar which tells the range for which data is currently being displayed. The subsequent sections on this page explain these tabs in detail. You can access this dashboard&nbsp;in IBM Cognos by navigating to&nbsp;Team Content &gt; SCI Packaged Content &gt; Packaged Dashboards &gt; OMNI &gt;&nbsp;Returns Dashboard.&nbsp;The&nbsp;following sections provide more information in detail. Return&nbsp;Orders Metrics Tab This tab displays the order returns using multiple channels, delivery method, overall return rate, abandonment rate, cross channel returns, and average return creation time. It captures data from the order-level metrics. Filters&nbsp;in&nbsp;Return&nbsp;Orders Metrics Tab The following table explains the filters included in this tab: Filter Name Description Created Date You have an option to select a particular date range to view the data in this tab using the Created Date filter. Selling Channel You can select any selling channel as per your requirements.&nbsp; Delivery Method You can select any delivery method from the options available in the drop-down for delivery method and view metrics as per your selection. &nbsp; &nbsp; Metrics in Return&nbsp;Orders Metrics Tab The metrics section provides the results for the dimensions filtered as you select&nbsp;different values in either visualization&nbsp;or the filter section. The following table summarizes the metrics included in the Return Order Metrics Tab: Metric Name Query Subject / Query Subject Item Description Overall Returns Rate ORD_ORDER, ORD_ORDER_LINE /&nbsp;PK, MAX_FULFILLMENT_STATUS_ID, MAX_RETURN_STATUS_ID RETURN_TYPE_ID This data provides the percentage of returns through multiple selling channels over the total orders. Abandonment Rate - DSS Returns ORD_ORDER, ORD_ORDER_LINE /&nbsp;PK,MAX_RETURN_STATUS_ID, SELLING_CHANNEL_ID, IS_CONFIRMED, IS_CANCELLED, RETURN_TYPE_ID This data represents the percentage of orders abandoned due to payment failures or change in customer preferences for the SelfServe selling channel. Cross Channel Returns Rate ORD_ORDER, ORD_ORDER_LINE /&nbsp;PK, MAX_RETURN_STATUS_ID, SELLING_CHANNEL_ID, RETURN_TYPE_ID, PARENT_ORDER_ID, PARENT_ORDER_LINE_ID This data represents the percentage of times the selling channel selected while placing an order is different from the channel selected when returning. Avg. Days B/W Shipment & Return Creation (Days) ORD_ORDER, ORD_ORDER_LINE ORD_FULFILLMENT_DETAIL /&nbsp;PK, MAX_RETURN_STATUS_ID, CREATED_TIMESTAMP, RETURN_TYPE_ID, PARENT_ORDER_ID, PARENT_ORDER_LINE_ID, FULFILMENT_DATE This data represents the average number of days between an order is shipped to customers and return is created by them. &nbsp; Visualizations in&nbsp;Return&nbsp;Orders Metrics Tab This tab includes three interactive visualizations that return data based on the selection of data points. The following sections summarize the different visualizations in this tab: Returns By Selling Channel: This Column chart provides the data on the number of returns coming through various selling channels, such as Call Center, Self Serve, Store, and Web selling channels. The x-axis denotes these selling channels, and the y-axis the number of returns. You can view individual data by hovering over each column in the visualization. This visualization helps you analyze the most and least popular selling channels for returning orders. &nbsp; Returns By Delivery Method: This column visualization compares the number of order returns across delivery methods, such as ShipToReturnCenter and StoreReturn. The x-axis denotes the delivery method, and the y-axis provides the number of orders. This visualization helps you analyze the most favored delivery method for returning orders. &nbsp; Returns By Created Date: This column graph provides a comparison of the number of orders returned against the total number of orders on a daily basis. The x-axis denotes the date and y-axis total and returned orders.&nbsp; &nbsp; Return&nbsp;Order Line Metrics Tab This tab includes visualizations of exchanges and refunds, exchanges by style, color, return orders by product class, and return reasons. It uses the Order Line metrics to display data for this tab. &nbsp; Filters&nbsp;in&nbsp;Return&nbsp;Order Line Metrics Tab &nbsp; The following table explains the filters included in this tab: Filter Description Created Date You have the option to select multiple timelines to view the data in this tab using the Created Date filter. Selling Channel You can view the data for Web, Call Center, Store, and other channels per your requirement. Delivery Method You can filter the dashboard data by selecting your preferred delivery method, such as ShiptoReturnCenter and ShiptoStore. Return Type You can view the data for different return types, such as Even Exchange, Refund, and Uneven Exchange. Product Class This filter gives a list of product class for you to view the data for. Return Reason You can select from different return reasons, such as damage, color mismatch, size issues, and more. &nbsp; Visualizations in Return&nbsp;Order Line Metrics Tab &nbsp; This tab contains the following visualizations Returns - Exchange vs Refunds:&nbsp;This pie chart visualization provides the number of order lines&nbsp;returned and exchanged. Using this visualization, you can analyze the trend of these dimensions and determine if your orders tend to be&nbsp;more refunds than exchanges. &nbsp; Exchanges - Same Style vs Diff Style: This pie chart visualization compares the percentage of orders exchanged with the same and different styles. Using this visualization, you can determine and design strategies to enhance items that customers frequently swap. &nbsp; &nbsp; Exchange By Diff Size and Color: This pie chart visualization&nbsp;depicts the number of order lines&nbsp;exchanged with different sizes and colors. This visualization helps you&nbsp;analyze the trend of these exchanges and design exchange policies to refrain customers from refunds and choose better products instead. &nbsp; Returns By Reason: This tabular data provides information on the rate of returns for reasons such as color mismatch, damage, size issues, and others. By utilizing this visualization, you can examine the frequently reported reasons for dissatisfaction with your products and take steps to reduce their frequency. &nbsp; Returns by Product Class: This tabular data provides information on the rate of returns for a product class, such as apparel, accessories, footwear, and others. Using this data, you can determine strategies to improve product lines that customers frequently return. &nbsp;