# Return to Shelf Configuration

**Permalink:** return-to-shelf-config
**Content Length:** 6,528 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:36:13.048945

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Inventory & Fulfillment&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Order Fulfillment&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Return to Shelf ››Return to Shelf Configuration Return to Shelf Configuration Store Fulfillment Parameters Store Fulfillment Parameters Enable Return to Shelf On Users can specify the date for turning on the Return to Shelf feature. If a date is not specified, it means the Return to Shelf feature is not enabled. By default, the &quot;Enable Return to Shelf on&quot; parameter is&nbsp;turned off. The Date is considered in the store&#39;s time zone. If this parameter is enabled on a specific date, then all the expired or cancelled orders on and after that date will be available to the store users for returning to the shelf. If Return to shelf is not enabled, then the store user will not be able to view the return to shelf orders. To return order items to the shelf, users must have the required permission and must enable the &quot;Enable Return to Shelf on&quot; parameter. RTS Max Eligible Days This configuration limits the number of fulfillments that show in Return to Shelf and is determined on&nbsp;a maximum number of days constraint. For example, only the last 90&nbsp;days worth of RTS fulfillments should be shown to the user.&nbsp; By default, this is set to 90 days but can be configured to a different value. If this is configured as null or blank, then a default of 90 days is considered.&nbsp; Sort Return-to-Shelf Orders By Store users can configure options to sort Return-to-shelf orders using the &quot;Sort Return to shelf orders by&quot;&nbsp;parameter. Users can configure one of the following possible values: a) Location (Ascending)&nbsp; b) Last Name (Ascending) c) Order (Descending) Sort by location: Allows users to view orders that are eligible for returning to shelf by staging location. Users can&nbsp;go to the locations to collect the eligible order items. This is the default option. Sort by order: If&nbsp;the store is&nbsp;not using any formal sorting, store users may&nbsp;want to put the oldest order back on the floor first. Typically, store users are expected to use this rule only when staging is not organized. So, they may or may not go to multiple locations. All orders&nbsp;may be placed on one shelf. Sort by last name: Store users may want to sort by the last name of the customer and find all orders and locations for that customer and then return such orders to the shelf. Enable Click to Email Customer This parameter controls the ability to contact the customer via email exchange upon clicking on the hyperlink of the email address of the customer displayed on order details of return to shelf process.&nbsp;Upon clicking the link, the device&#39;s default e-mail application is opened. By default, this parameter is set to false.&nbsp;This functionality is also governed by a permission. See the Store Fulfillment UI resources for more information. Enable Click to Call Customer This parameter controls the ability to contact the customer via phone call/message&nbsp;upon clicking on the hyperlink of the phone number of the customer displayed on order details of return to shelf process.&nbsp;Upon clicking the link, the device&#39;s default phone&nbsp;application is opened. By default, this parameter is set to false.&nbsp;This functionality is also governed by a permission. See the Store Fulfillment UI resources for more information. UIs and Entities The configuration UIs mentioned in this document are listed in the following table,&nbsp;along with information to&nbsp;navigate&nbsp;to the API documentation. UI Name Component Group Seed Data Present? Seed Data Profile Store Fulfillment Parameter Fulfillment FulfillmentParameters Services Yes Base