# Returns &amp;amp; Exchanges

**Permalink:** returns-exchanges
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Order Management/Process & Configuration Guides/Digital Self-Service/Returns & Exchanges
**Content Length:** 102,962 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:55:18.321936

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Order Management››Process & Configuration Guides››Digital Self-Service ››Returns &amp; Exchanges Digital Self-Service Returns & Exchanges OverviewReturn LabelsDefault Item to Receipt Not ExpectedEditing Returns within Digital Self-ServiceSize and Color Drop-DownsCreate Returns and Exchanges using Optimized UI ImprovementsConverting Return Order to Uneven Exchange OrderConverting Exchange Order to Uneven Exchange OrderPreviewing Order DetailsSize Buttons and Color Thumbnail Images Return/Exchange Order ConfirmationUsing the Browser Back ButtonEnforcing Return PoliciesStore ReturnsStore Finder Only - ModeCreate Return - ModePrinter-less ReturnsExchangesAdditional item attributesPaymentGift ReturnsUI Field MappingsKits in Returns & ExchangesManage Returns & ExchangesConfigurationSelf-Service Returns ConfigurationResources for the Digital Self-Service Configuration UIReturn Shipping MethodReturn ReasonsEnable ExchangesSet Default Returns Shipping MethodSet Default Exchange Shipping Method and Change Shipping Method while creating an Exchange OrderCarrier IntegrationEstimated Refund MappingsImplementing User Exits for Digital Self-ServiceStore Returns ConfigurationPrinter-less Returns ConfigurationReturns and Exchanges Optimized UI Improvements ConfigurationEnable Change Shipping Address for Exchange Orders ConfigurationAdd Additional Item Attributes for Exchange Items ConfigurationFeature ScopeHow to TestImplementation FlavorsHow to enable printer-less returns for UPS Mail InnovationsHow to localize the messages displayed when an item is not returnableExtending Carrier Locator Link with Third-Party Carriers in DSS Returns Flow Overview In Digital Self-Service, customers can create returns and exchanges against orders from any channel (e-commerce, call center, point of sale) and fulfill in any delivery method (ship to home, BOPIS, ship to store). Returns can be created against any fulfilled and paid quantity in Active® Omni, regardless of whether the item is in Fulfilled or Delivered status. Customers can initiate the self-service exchange flow in a few different ways. One is via the link provided in the shipment confirmation email. Another is if the retailer provides a returns link in the customer’s My Account page in e-commerce. A third way to initiate the flow is if the retailer offers a link in e-commerce to initiate returns, even for customers who are not logged in. When creating a return or exchange order, a customer can select the return method. The different return methods are "return-by-mail", "return-in-store" and "printer-less returns". A landing page to select the return method is displayed if at least two return methods are enabled in the Digital Self-Service configuration. Customers can select items to return or exchange, quantity to return, and reason for return. After selecting items, customers can view their estimated refund based on the common refund rules which are used across all channels in Active® Omni. The estimated refund also includes a summary of charge, tax and discount details associated to the return. After confirming the return, the customer is emailed a return label. The customer can also download a copy of the return shipping label and use it to ship the return items back. Returns and exchanges against orders in both the active and archived databases are supported. A maximum of 30 order lines can be returned on a single return order. Return Labels Customers can view and print the return label by using built-in browser functionalities to save or print the return label. In case the return label cannot be created or retrieved, an appropriate error message is displayed to the customer so that they can reach out to the contact center for help. Return label generation is supported for FedEx and UPS (the same carriers which are supported in customer service). The total number of return packages is currently assumed to be one, meaning that only one label will be created. If a retailer chooses to allow more than one return package and label per return order, the Digital Self-Service Parameter "Enable Multiple Return Packages" can be set to true. When enabled, the customer can edit the number of packages on the return preview page. The max number of packages is set on a return order basis, and is limited to the return quantity for that return order (similar to the behavior in the contact center). Note: The return label should also be emailed to the customer upon confirming the return order. While Active® Omni can publish an outbound message to trigger the email (via Publish Order JSON, Email Message JSON, or formatted email body HTML), the email needs to be delivered by an external system. See the Transactional Emails Guide for more information. Note: If multiple return labels are generated, the system consolidates all return labels in a single PDF. When the customer clicks “View/Print Return Label” on the Return Confirmation page, all labels are available in a single PDF. Default Item to Receipt Not Expected Retailers can avoid expensive shipping/handling costs for returns, when it is not worth it. Retailers can capture the worthiness by defining a certain threshold amount. The threshold value can be configured either at return order or return line level using the “Evaluate Receipt Not Expected Threshold Value” field in the Order Configuration UI. Refer to Evaluate Receipt Not Expected section for more details. When a return order is being created: If the threshold is set at order line level, and if the cost of the return item is less than the threshold value, the return item will be deemed as not necessary to be returned, i.e. a receipt is not expected on this item. If the threshold is set at order level, and if the total cost of the return order is less than the threshold value, then none of the item(s) will be deemed as not necessary to be returned, i.e. a receipt is not expected on all items in this return order. For items that do not need to be returned, "You do not need to return the item(s) below” message is displayed on the return order confirmation and these items are listed under a section "Return Not Required". If none of the return order items need to be returned, then a message to that effect is displayed on the confirmation page. The email templates are updated to be in sync with the return confirmation page. Editing Returns within Digital Self-Service During return order creation, a customer can select 'Return/Exchange More' to edit the return or exchange order before confirmation. After a return or exchange is confirmed, then no updates can be made in Digital Self-Service, and the customer must call the contact center to make updates or cancel. After a customer selects items to return or exchange and proceeds to the preview page within Digital Self-Service, they can use the 'Return/Exchange More' button to navigate back and make the following updates: Modify quantity Modify return reason Modify exchange color Modify exchange size Change from return to exchange, or from exchange to return Select new items to return/exchange De-select items previously selected to return/exchange When the user selects the 'Return/Exchange More' button the return order is canceled and if any of the above actions are taken, then a new return order is created. After a user creates the new return and proceeds, their new estimated refund is reflected on the preview screen. Note: By default, the system displays the ordered quantity as the returnable quantity, and the user is able to enter or update the quantity, even though the item is not eligible for return. For example, OrderLine.IsReturnable flag is false. Size and Color Drop-Downs When a user selects ‘Exchange’, then the color and size drop-downs appear below the reason drop-down. The list of colors and sizes are displayed using the following logic: Retrieve the list of items which are sold for this item style and product class. Retrieve all possible colors and sizes from the item master, via the item index. Note that this only includes items which have an item price record, just like in the contact center. Last, sequence the list of possible colors using color sequence, and sequence the list of sizes using size sequence, before displaying the list in the self-service drop-down. Note: The default size and color values are copied from the parent order line. Currently, only size and color attributes are supported for exchanges. If the style being exchanged has no color and/or size, then those drop-downs will not appear on the page and the user can move forward with processing the exchange. If an item is not sold in a given size/color combination, then the options are in grey. This means that the size/color combination does not exist in the item master (item index). Options in grey are not disabled. For example, a customer selects the color blue. The customer opens the size pop-up, which has all options except large in grey. This means that the blue color is only sold in Large (meaning that the item index record only exists for Large). However, the customer can still select size Small, to see what colors are offered in Small. The grey options do not communicate the inventory picture. The inventory call is made after a size or color is selected, and a message is shown if no inventory exists. The same message is shown if the item is not sold in the selected color/size combination, as shown in the example above. Create Returns and Exchanges using Optimized UI Improvements In the optimized UI improvements, upon selection of a return method, the Select Items page is loaded and items from the original order are displayed as an item tile. The item tile contains the item information like short description, size, color, price & returnable quantity. The item tile will be disabled or enabled based on the item's eligibility for returning and / or exchanging. Additionally, if the item is ineligible, a detailed out-of-the-box reason is also displayed at the top of the item tile. For more details about the ineligibility reason, click here. For details about how to override the ineligibility reason, click here. Note: A return order can be created for all the return methods; Mail with printer-less drop-off, "Mail with a printed label", and "Return In Store". However, exchange is supported only with "Mail with printer-less drop-off" and "Mail with a printed label" return methods. Once an item is tapped, the user is auto-navigated through a relevant set of pages based on Self-Service configurations and item return/exchange eligibility. These set of pages allow the customer to make a choice between return or exchange; select quantity, select size & color, select reason. In the case of uneven exchange, customers can also select items from product recommendations. After the user makes the choices, the navigation returns to the Select Items page with that specific item selected for return or exchange, depending on the choice made by the user. If the item is being returned, it is tagged using a label with the value "returning". If the item is being exchanged, it is tagged using a label with the value "exchanging for...". The user can edit the selected item by tapping on it and navigating through the different pages and changing choices on each page. The uneven exchange feature allows customers to exchange a product from their original order for a different product. This is facilitated by strategically displaying product recommendations in the exchange flow. Note: Product recommendations will be displayed while creating returns and exchange in DSS only if "Digital Self Service Enable Exchange" and “Enable Uneven Exchange” are enabled in the Digital Self Service Configuration UI. Converting Return Order to Uneven Exchange Order Once the user has selected all items to be returned on the Select Items page and the Next button is clicked, a page listing product recommendations is displayed. When the user selects one of the product recommendations, the Product Details page is presented. This page displays thumbnail images of different colors of the item instead of color buttons. The user can select the color, size, and quantity of this item. Upon clicking the "Add to Order" button, the Select items page is displayed with the recommended item as one of the items on the return order. This item is tagged using a label with the value "purchasing". Alternatively, the user can choose not to select any recommended item and can proceed to just returning the selected items by clicking “No Thanks” on the product recommendations page. Converting Exchange Order to Uneven Exchange Order When a user has chosen to exchange an item and has reached the Edit Size/Color page for the same style in the navigation, a carousel section with product recommendations is displayed on this page. When the user selects one of the product recommendations, the Product Details page is presented. The user can select the color, size, and quantity of this item. Upon clicking the "Add to Order" button, the Select Reason page for the original item being exchanged is displayed. Upon selecting the reason, the Select items page is displayed with the recommended item as one of the items on the return order. This item is tagged using a label with the value "purchasing". The item in the parent order which was being exchanged is tagged using a label with the value "returning". Alternatively, the user can proceed with even-exchange by ignoring the product recommendations carousel and clicking "Next" as usual on the Edit Size/Color page and completing the even exchange flow. After selecting all items to exchange & clicking the Next button on Select Items, a page listing product recommendations is displayed, providing the customer with another chance to select a new item. The user can click the “No Thanks” button on this page to proceed with the even style exchange. Note: The item's property "SmallImageURI" will be used to load the thumbnail images for different colors of the item on the Product Details page. Clients should ensure their item master is set up correctly and; It does not have null/empty value for this property, else items will be displayed with "no image" thumbnail. The same value of "SmallImageURI" is not present for two or more itemids, which represent different colors of the item, else the same thumbnail images will be displayed for different colors and lead to confusion. Some pages might be skipped while selecting items for returns/exchanges in the following scenarios: If either one of these configurations: "Digital Self Service Enable Exchanges" or "Enable Return" is disabled, then the "Select Return/Exchange' page is skipped. If an item has the eligible quantity to return or exchange as 1, then the 'Select Quantity' page is skipped. Previewing Order Details After the user selects items to return or exchange, they can proceed to the preview page to review the items chosen. The user can also review the new item details in the “What you’re getting” section and the original item details in the “What you’re sending back” section, along with the estimated refund, balance due and the order summary information. The customer can change or capture the shipping address for an exchange order, if the retailer has set up the configuration in the Self Service config section. Instructions to allow customers to change the shipping address on the Return and Exchanges Preview page can be found in the Change Shipping Address Configuration section. The customer can change the shipping method if the retailer has set up the configuration in the Self-Service configuration section. Instructions to allow customers to change the shipping method on the Return and Exchanges Preview page can be found in the Change Shipping Method Configuration section. The user can select 'Return/Exchange More' to edit the return or exchange order before confirmation. After a return or exchange is confirmed, then no updates can be made in Digital Self-Service, and the customer must call the contact center to make updates or cancel. On the preview page, the customer can use the 'Return/Exchange More' button to navigate back to the Select Items page and make the following updates: Modify quantity Modify return reason Modify exchange color Modify exchange size Change from return to exchange, or from exchange to return Select new items to return/exchange De-select items previously selected to return/exchange Note: While adding an item for return or exchange or editing a selected item, navigation in a backward direction will not save the choices made. Only when the user completes the natural forward navigation and lands on the Select Item page, are the choices made retained. When the user selects the 'Return/Exchange More' button, the existing return order is canceled and if any of the above actions are taken, then a new return order is created. After a user creates the new return and proceeds, their new estimated refund and order summary information is reflected on the preview screen. Refer to the Returns and Exchanges Optimized UI Improvements Configuration section for more details on how to enable Select Items UI Improvements. Size Buttons and Color Thumbnail Images When a user selects ‘Exchange’, all the corresponding size buttons appear in the select size section, while the select color section displays thumbnail images corresponding to different colors of the item. Note: The option to display item images for different colors instead of the color-named buttons is controlled by a behavioral change configuration, "OM - DSS Exchange: Item images for color selection", which is disabled by default. The enable-by-date for this feature is listed in the Review Behavior Changes UI, and allows users to enable improvements any date before this date. Please refer to the behavior change document here for additional information on this process and to learn to take advantage of this feature early for testing and training. Retrieve the list of items which are sold for this item style and product class. Retrieve all possible colors and sizes from the item master, via the item index. Note that this only includes items which have an item price record, just like in the contact center. Last, sequence the list of possible colors using color sequence, and sequence the list of sizes using size sequence, before displaying the list as buttons on the Select Size and Color page. Note: The default size and color values are copied from the parent order line. Currently, only size and color attributes are supported for exchanges. If the style being exchanged has no color and/or size, then those buttons will not appear on the page and the user can move forward with processing the exchange. If an item is not sold in a given size/color combination, then the options are in grey. This means that the size/color combination does not exist in the item master (item index). Options in grey are not disabled. For example, a customer selects the color blue. The customer opens the size pop-up, which has all options except large in grey. This means that the blue color is only sold in Large (meaning that the item index record only exists for Large). However, the customer can still select size Small, to see what colors are offered in Small. The grey options do not communicate the inventory picture. The inventory call is made after a size or color is selected, and a message is shown if no inventory exists. The same message is shown if the item is not sold in the selected color/size combination, as shown in the example above. Return/Exchange Order Confirmation At the bottom of the Preview page, the user will see either a "confirm" or "Pay and confirm" button. In a scenario when there is a return fee or the price of the selected exchange item is more than the original item, the system will calculate and display the balance due. In these cases, the customer is required to make the payment by clicking "Pay and confirm" to confirm the order. If the price of the newly selected item(s) is less than the original item(s), the system will calculate and display the estimated refund amount and the customer is required to click the confirm button to confirm the order. The estimated refund amount will be credited to the customer’s account. Once the user confirms the return/exchange order on the Preview page, the user is redirected to the confirmation page. The confirmation page displays the instructional steps to return the items, based on the return method chosen. If the return method is return-by-mail, a carrier link to find store locations is displayed in the instructional steps. This link is displayed in a hide-base UI extension, and is populated only if the country of customer order is the USA and the carriers are – FedEx, UPS or USPS. This UI extension can be hidden if the end customers need not see this link. The default URL links used for finding carrier locations are Carrier URL UPS https://www.ups.com/dropoff?loc=en_US FedEx https://local.fedex.com/en-us USPS https://tools.usps.com/locations/ For all other values of country or carriers, the hide-base extension is not populated and hence not visible. In this case, a button extension has been provided, which can be populated with the carrier location URL. This can also be used for a custom carrier in the USA. The country of customer order depends on the delivery method. For the delivery method "Ship to Address", the country is obtained from the shipping address; for the delivery methods "Ship to Store", "BOPIS", "Store Sale", the country is obtained from the store address. After the instructions section, an appropriate barcode or label is displayed, based on the return method: • Return-by-mail : A button to view/download shipping label • Return in store : One-dimensional barcode • Printer-less returns : Two-dimensional barcode ; QR code (FedEx) or Data Matrix code (UPS) The confirmation page also displays an order summary followed by product recommendations, if configured. Note: This feature is controlled by a behavioral change configuration which is disabled by default. The enable-by-date for this feature is 5th June 2024 and allows users to enable improvements any date before this date. However, after this date, the new mobile-optimized Returns/Exchanges GUI will be the default. To support this feature, new labels and CSS styles will be added. Click here to understand how to enable this feature. Please refer to the behavior change document here for additional information on this process and to learn to take advantage of this feature early for testing and training. Using the Browser Back Button In addition to the in-app 'Return/Exchange More' button, the browser 'Back' button can be used to navigate backwards to edit a return or exchange order. If the browser 'Back' button is used on the first screen in the flow UI, then the user is navigated back to the prior webpage (or, if a new browser tab was opened, then no update occurs). If the user clicks 'Back' on the second screen in the flow, the behavior is the same as that of the 'Return/Exchange More' button; the user can edit quantities, reason, etc. and proceed again. If the user clicks 'Back' on the third (confirmation) screen in the flow, then no updates can be made to the return order and the user will be notified that they cannot navigate backwards. The browser 'Reload' or 'Refresh' button behaves similarly to the 'Back' button. For instance, if the 'Reload' button is clicked on the final confirmation UI, then the user sees a warning that their return order has already been confirmed. Note: If a customer clicks the back button during the return creation process to edit or modify the return, Digital Self-Service will cancel the return order generated in the previous steps and create a new return order based on the initial selection. Enforcing Return Policies A few return policies can be enforced in self-service: Marking items as 'not returnable'. For instance, digital items, gift card items, or final sale items can be configured as 'not returnable' on the item if an item is never returnable, or the order line can be marked with isReturnable = false in the case of final sale items which are normally returnable except for some scenarios. If an item is not returnable, the self-service UI displays a message indicating that the item cannot be returned. Items which are already returned on any channel, including in store or customer service, cannot be returned. This is assuming that returns from such channels are in Active® Omni. Return age policy. A return age can be configured in the Order Configuration UI, such as 120 days, and self-service does not permit customers to return items more than 120 days after they are shipped. Payment status. A return cannot be created for an order which is not yet fully paid. This adheres to the order restriction that is also used during contact center return order creation. Note: If any of the required configurations in order and Digital Self-Service do not match, the UI displays a generic message: "This item is outside of the eligible return window". Store Returns Store returns can be initiated through Digital Self-Service, for customers wanting to expedite the return process at the store. When the Digital Self-Service configuration 'Enable Return in Store' is set to true, a 'Return in store' method is displayed on the select return page. There are two types of behavior for the Return-in-Store method : Store Finder Only & Create Return. The value selected for the Digital Self-Service configuration, the "Return-in-store option", decides the type of behavior for the Return-in-Store method. Store Finder Only - Mode If the "Return-in-store option" configuration's value is "Store Finder Only", then the nearest store card is displayed in the Return in Store tile. On clicking this tile, the customer navigates to the Store Finder page. This page lists the retailer’s store locations within 200 miles; if no stores exist within 200 miles, then no stores are displayed.  The customer can change the search criteria and click on the search button to get the updated list of stores. Each store card contains the address, distance, phone and direction icons.  The customer can use the 'Get Directions' button to launch Google Maps and navigate to the store address. No Google integration or account is required, since Self-Service launches the Google Maps app (if installed on the device) or the Google Maps website (if the app is not installed). Other map providers are not supported. The 'Call Store' icon enables the customer to call the store by launching the native phone app. This mode does not result in the creation of a return order. Create Return - Mode If the "Return-in-store option" configuration's value is not selected or the value is "Create Return", then this flow results in the creation of a return order. When the "Return in store" method is selected, the customer is taken to the item selection page, where they can select the items, quantity, and reason for return.  Upon confirming the return, the return order is created using the Delivery Method of 'Store Return'. The customer is shown and emailed a barcode (attachment) corresponding to the return order. The intent is for the customer to bring their return items to the store, and have the store associate scan the barcode to complete the return. Note: Only returns are supported for the Return to Store flow. Exchanges are not supported. Note: Additional work may be required by the client POS system to enable this flow. The returns page also provides the nearest store name, address, and phone number, in case a customer wants to go to a store instead of shipping items back. If the 'Return in Store' flow is enabled and selected, this location is persisted on the 'SellingLocationId' of the return order when it is created. However, the customer is not limited to returning their items to this store. The 'SellingLocationId' can be updated to a different store during the return order confirmation. If the retailer does not have the 'Return in Store' flow enabled, the 'Return by Mail' return page still provides the nearest store location and details in case a customer chooses to return an item in store. In this case, they do not need to proceed through the create return flow, and no return order is created. The nearest store functionality uses the destination address from the parent line as the current location. Only store locations within 200 miles are displayed; if no stores exist within 200 miles, then no stores are displayed. The nearest store card is displayed only when the customer order is of type "Ship to Address". The customer can use the 'Get Directions' button to launch Google Maps and navigate to the store address. No Google integration or account is required, since Self-Service launches the Google Maps app (if installed on the device) or the Google Maps website (if the app is not installed). Other map providers are not supported. The 'Call Store' icon enables the customer to call the store by launching the native phone app. The 'Call Store' icon is not available on tablet or desktop form factors. Note: If retailers want to set this feature up, they should contact the Services team. To create a return order for the Return in Store flow, contact the services team to add a new Order Transaction Reference Type; refer to the Store Returns Configuration section for details. Note: For all store return orders, the base selling channel and order type will be set to 'SelfServe'. This intentional design change prevents immediate 'ready for tender' and refund processing for DSS store returns. The existing return pipeline, which automatically marks store returns as 'ready for tender,' is not suitable for DSS store returns. The new pipeline will ensure that the 'ready for tender' flag remains false for DSS store returns, differentiating them from other order types and selling channel. Printer-less Returns Printer-less returns can also be initiated through Digital Self-Service for customers without access to a printer to print their shipping label. When the Digital Self-Service configuration 'Printerless Returns Carrier Option' drop-down has a value selected, a different landing page is displayed to the customer when they navigate to the DSS return/exchange page. Here, the customer has the option to select 'Mail with printerless drop-off' and 'Mail with a printed label'. If 'Mail with printerless drop-off' is selected, the customer is navigated to the item selection page, where they can select the items, quantity, and reason for return, and this feature currently offers "Label Only" drop-off options, wherein the customer is expected to pack and seal the items to be returned and the associate at the drop-off location will print the label for the package. Upon confirming the return, a shipping label call is made to the carrier, similar to the mail-in return flow. After a shipping label is successfully generated, depending on the shipping carrier, DSS has a different workflow to generate different types of digital return code images associated with the shipping label. In the case of FedEx, DSS creates a QR code image associated with the return order ID (RMA number) and notifies the carrier that there is a QR (Quick Response) code affiliated with the shipping label. In the case of UPS, DSS makes a request to the carrier to obtain the source text for generating the Data Matrix code image. The customer is sent a return confirmation email with the shipping label attached. Additionally, depending on the carrier, a 2D digital return code image, either a QR code or a Data Matrix code, is attached as well. They can present the digital return code at the carrier location and the carrier will print the shipping label for the customer. Note: Printer-less returns are currently supported only by FedEx and UPS. To enable printer-less returns, select the option "FedEx-Label Only" or "UPS-Label Only" as required from the 'Printerless Returns Carrier Option' drop-down in the Digital Self Service Config UI and contact the services team to perform the following set up. For Carrier Code - FedEx: Ensure that the DSS return/exchange shipping method has the carrier code FedEx. Set up the User Exit in Order component. Set up the credentials in XBoundAuth. Refer to the Printer-less Returns Configuration section for more details. For Carrier Code - UPS: Ensure that the DSS return/exchange shipping method has the carrier code UPS. Set up the User Exit in Order component. Set up the client credentials in the order component's KV store. Set up the value of 'demoFlag' API request parameter in the order component's KV store. Note : The UPS's API, which is called for 'UPS-Label Only' option, does not have a separate sandbox and live environment, so the 'demoFlag' parameter is needed to indicate if the shipment package for which the Data Matrix code is being generated is a live package or demo package. Refer to the Printer-less Returns Configuration section for more details. Exchanges The same style and new style exchanges can optionally be enabled. If exchanges are enabled, customers can choose to either return items for a refund, or to exchange for a new color and / or size or a different style. If a user selects an exchange, self-service makes a Get Availability call by item Style. If inventory is not available, a message is shown to the user and the ‘Next’ button is disabled until they select an item which is available. Additional item attributes Additional item attributes can be displayed on the Item Details page (for even exchanges) and product details page (for uneven exchanges). The item attributes need to be configured on the Digital Self-Service configuration page in the Item Options configuration section. If the Item Options page has attributes defined, they will be displayed on the Item Details page and Product Details page, in the sequence in which they are defined in the configuration. These item attributes can be base or extended item attributes. While adding a record, the following information is needed: Attribute ( i.e. Attribute Name), Display Sequence and Sort Attribute, i.e. the attribute used to sort the possible values of a given Attribute. If the Item Options page has no attributes defined, then the 'Size' and 'Color' attributes are displayed as out-of-base attributes. Note : The 'Size' and 'Color' attributes need to be explicitly added to the Item Options configuration section, if they need to be displayed in the exchange flow along with the additional item attributes. Note : The exact names of the additional item attributes added via Item Options configuration are, by default, also the labels in the Item Details and Product Detail pages. To override these labels, add a key-value pair under the localization folder in KV store under the intended language. The key will be the exact name of the additional item attribute (it is case-sensitive) and the value will be the custom label desired. Payment Capturing payment for returns and exchanges is disabled by default, but can be enabled by checking the Digital Self Service Configuration "Enable Pay by Link for Self Service Features" checkbox. When enabled, retailers can capture payment for returns or exchanges that result in a balance due, due to return fees. When a balance is due, the return and exchange preview page allows users to select from different payment methods, if configured. If different payment methods are not configured, the default payment method is credit card. If there is a balance due, and the customer chooses to proceed with the return or exchange, they are redirected to the payment hosted checkout page to capture payment. Note : Payment capture for returns and exchanges is only supported for credit cards. Note : The Pay by Link parameter applies to both returns and exchanges. Note : Instructions to enable different payment methods on the Return and Exchanges Preview page and configuring a payment gateway for each of them can be found in the Multiple Payment Gateways Configuration section. Gift Returns Retailers can execute the gift return flow if the customer that is returning the item has indicated that they are a gift recipient. When the retailer identifies that the return is a gift return, they will include an additional parameter in the existing return URL '&isGiftReturn=true'. By adding this URL parameter, DSS displays additional text fields to capture the gift recipient's First Name, Last Name, and Email address. These values are saved as the return order First Name, Last Name, and Email address. When this return is created, each order line IsGift field is set to true, and the gift refund flow that is set up is followed. UI Field Mappings Returns UI field mappings UI UI Field Name Entity/Attribute Max Length Additional Logic Return Creation Order Order.OrderId 50 Store Name Organization.Location.Address.DisplayId 50 If Line 1 is ShipToAddress, then UI shows nearest store from shipToLocationId (customer shipping address) If Line 1 is PickUpAtStore or StoreSale, then UI shows the same store (sellingLocationId) If Line 1 is cancelled or It's a Return line then Line 2 is considered If no store found, hide the panel NOTE* Radius considered is 200 miles for locating a nearest store Store Address Organization.Location.Address N/A Address is concatenated with comma ( , ) between all the fields (Address1+Address2+City+State) If any of the above field is null, do not display address Distance It is calculated by passing PostalCode, OrgID & CountryCode to store locator API N/A UI will show Distance from store in miles only for ShiptToAddress Order with a Distance*(Suffix) Order.OrderLine.ShipToAddress.Address N/A Address is concatenated with comma ( , ) between all the fields (City+State+PostalCode) Call Organization.Location.Address.Phone 50 Map Organization.Location.Address N/A Search String is concatenation of (Address1+PostalCode+City+State+Country) Item Image Order.OrderLine.SmallImageURI 750 If null, UI shows 'no item' image Item image is linked to web URL if orderLine.itemWebURL is populated item Description Order.OrderLine.ItemShortDescription 50 If null, UI do not display Item Size Order.OrderLine.ItemSize 100 If null, UI shows: "Size: --" Item Color Order.OrderLine.ItemColorDescription 100 If null, UI shows: "Color: --" Item Price Order.OrderLine.UnitPrice 16,2 Currency displayed based on Order.Currency If currency is null, then defaulted to USD Returnable Quantity Order.OrderLine.ReturnableQuantity 16,4 All the quantities in 7000 status Quantity Entered by User N/A User can also click on "Edit" to change the quantity Default Return quantity to 1 If OrderLine.returnableQuantity = 1, then 'Edit' link is disabled If user enters a quantity more than the returnable quantity, an error is displayed: "Only X units are eligible for return." +/- is disabled when quantity reaches returnable qty and zero respectively. Next Action button to create Return N/A Enabled only when all the selected item have reasons selected. Disabled if no item is selected Others* N/A N/A OrderTypeId, SellingChannelId, ShipToLocationId are fetched from the self-service config Return Reason Order.reason.shortDescription 50 All reason with ReasonTypeId="Return" is  displayed Return Preview Order Order.OrderId 50 UI shows OrderId of original customer order but all other details on the page are fetched from Return Order Item Image Order.OrderLine.SmallImageURI 750 If null, UI shows 'no item' image Item image is linked to web URL if orderLine.itemWebURL is populated Item Description Order.OrderLine.ItemShortDescription 50 If null, UI do not display Item Size Order.OrderLine.ItemSize 100 If null, UI shows: "Size: --" Item Color Order.OrderLine.ItemColorDescription 100 If null, UI shows: "Color: --" Item Price Order.OrderLine.UnitPrice 16,2 Currency displayed based on Order.Currency If currency is null, then defaulted to USD "-" sign is removed Quantity Order.OrderLine.Quantity 16,4 Reason Order.OrderLine.OrderLineAdditional.returnReason 50 Return Credit Order.ReturnTotalWithoutFees 16,2 Currency displayed based on Order.Currency If currency is null, then defaulted to USD Return Fee Order.TotalReturnFees 16,2 Currency displayed based on Order.Currency If currency is null, then defaulted to USD Estimated Refund Order.OrderTotal 16,2 Currency displayed based on Order.Currency If currency is null, then defaulted to USD Refund Details Payment.paymentMethod.PaymentType.PaymentTypeId Payment.paymentMethod.ExpectedAmount 50 16,2 {Currency}{ExpectedAmount} will be refunded to If AccountDisplayNumber is not null then AccountDisplayNumber else PaymentTypeId Return Confirmation Order Order.OrderId 50 UI shows OrderId of original customer order not return order EmailId in confirmation text Order.CustomerEmail 50 Estimated Refund N/A N/A Same as "Return Preview" page Refund Details N/A N/A Same as "Return Preview" page Kits in Returns & Exchanges A kit item can be returned or exchanged using Digital Self-Service- Returns and Exchanges flow. The Preview and Confirmation pages will display the component items of a kit item on the item card. This is applicable to kit items in both Exchanges and Returns sections of these two pages. The component items are displayed as a carousel of thumbnail images. The number of component items is displayed as a number badge in the bottom right corner of the thumbnail image; this number is calculated based on the quantity of kit items being returned and / or exchanged. Note: Kit component item display is only available in the Optimized Returns / Exchanges UI. Note: A component item cannot be returned independently; the entire kit needs to be returned. Manage Returns & Exchanges In Digital Self-Service, customers can manage their return and exchange orders independently, i.e. they can: Cancel returns & exchanges Resume, edit, and confirm unintentionally abandoned orders and Reprint shipping & barcode labels. After a return order either confirmed or unconfirmed is initiated using the Returns and Exchanges UI, the Select Items page will display a banner indicating that returns are in process and could be managed. On clicking this message, the customer will navigate to the Manage Return page, allowing customers to access cancel return, resume return, and reprint label functionalities. Note: If the user visits the Manage Returns page by clicking on the above-mentioned banner, then only those return or exchange orders associated with the parent order are displayed, which have an actionable link, i.e. orders which are canceled or returned will not be displayed. Users can navigate to the Manage Return page via a link button, included in the return confirmation email-template. If the user visits the Manage Returns page by clicking on the link in the email, then they will only see that one return or exchange order with relevant action links, based on the order's status. For example, if the return order is in canceled or return status, no action links will be displayed. The Manage Returns page enables customers to cancel both confirmed and unconfirmed return orders. Customers can unintentionally create unconfirmed orders when they leave the return screen unattended after initiating the return. These unconfirmed return orders lock returnable inventory, resulting in either the item not being returnable anymore or the item’s returnable quantity being reduced. Such orders are listed on the Manage Return page where the customers can resume, edit, and confirm these orders or cancel the return. In the case of confirmed orders, if customers change their mind and want to return another item instead or change the quantity of the returned items, they can cancel the confirmed order. This will result in the item’s returnable quantity being increased and/or the item becoming eligible again to be returned. The customer can then create another return with an updated quantity. Cancel Return - After the customer clicks "Cancel Return" on the Manage Returns page, the Select Reason page for canceling the return order is displayed. Upon selecting the reason, the canceled return message is displayed, and the returnable quantity of the parent order will be increased to include the item quantity that was associated with the canceled return order. Resume Return - When the customer clicks "Resume Return" on the Manage Returns page, the customer is taken to the Return Review page. On clicking the confirm button, the return order will be confirmed. Reprint Label - When the customer clicks "Reprint Label" on the Manage Returns page, the return label is displayed. Note that if the return order is created with the return method "Return In Store", a 1D barcode is presented with the return order Id. If the return order is created with a return method - "Mail with Printerless DropOff", a 2D barcode is presented; either a QR code image associated with the return order ID (RMA number) for FedEx, or a Data Matrix code for UPS. If the return order is created, with a return method as "Mail with a Printed Label", PDF document containing the return shipping label will be displayed. Note that if the associated shipping label is not available anymore, an error message will be displayed to the customer. Note: ‘Reprint Label’ is not controlled by any Modification Type; it depends on whether the return order is confirmed or not. Note: The cancel return option will be displayed for both confirmed and unconfirmed orders. However, the resume return option will be displayed only for unconfirmed orders and the reprint label option will be displayed only for confirmed orders. Configuration The following configuration is required for returns: Configure your organization and user to be used for authentication - see the Authentication Guide for detailed steps. This only needs to be done once per organization, so no action is required if it's already been done. Enable shipment confirmation emails if required. To configure outbound messages for generating emails or text messages, see the Transactional Emails and Transactional Texts guides. Configure the order type, selling channel, and return location to be used for Self-Service return orders in the Digital Self Service Configuration UI. Add a return shipping method, if using mail in return flow or QR code return flow. If the QR code return flow is enabled, a valid FedEx ship via must be configured for the shipping method. Enable Exchanges, to allow customers to create same-style exchanges Enable Exchanges, to allow customers to create different-style exchanges Configure a return age policy in the Order Configuration UI Optional: Configure a max length, prefix, and suffix for return order IDs generated in Digital Self-Service (Note: This is mandatory if using UPS for return shipping labels) Optional: Set 'Enable Return In Store' to true in the Digital Self-Service Configuration to enable returning items to a store. Optional: Choose a value for 'Printerless Returns Carrier Option' drop-down in the Digital Self-Service Configuration to enable returning items via a digital return code. Optional: Set 'Enable Multiple Return Packages' to true in the Digital Self-Service Configuration to enable mulitple return label generation. Optional: Set 'Enable Pay by Link for Self Service Features' to true in the Digital Self-Service Configuration to enable self-payment for DSS returns and exchanges. Optional: Set 'Enable Change Shipping Address for Exchange Orders' to allow retailers to capture and change the shipping address while creating exchange orders. Optional: Add at least one shipping method in 'Shipping Methods Config' section, to allow retailers to change the shipping method while creating exchange orders. Optional: Add additional item attributes for exchange items. See below for more details on each of these configurations. Self-Service Returns Configuration The following attributes are included on the create return request which is sent from the UI to the order component. These values are configured in the Self Service Configuration UI. Replace the seed data with values from your implementation. Attribute Required Seed Data Self-Service Return Center Id Yes Self-Service Selling Channel Yes SelfServe Self-Service Order Type Yes SelfServe Order Resources for the Digital Self-Service Configuration UI Assign grants for the DSS Configuration UI menu to the required user groups. Resource Name: digitalselfservice::configuration::admin Return Shipping Method A return shipping method is required in order to generate a return label. At least one shipping method with IsReturnShippingMethod set to true is required in the parcel component. Return Reasons Return reasons displayed in Digital Self-Service can be unique or shared with those used in the contact center. To configure, on the reasons UI, enable 'Eligible for Self Service' for each reason which should be displayed in Digital Self-Service. If eligible for self-service is true or null, then the reason is displayed in DSS. Use the 'Eligible for contact center' to indicate which reasons are displayed in the contact center. If eligible for contact center is true or null, then the reason is displayed in the contact center. Reasons can be localized based on the users locale. If the customer's locale is provided in the Digital Self-Service URL, then return reasons are displayed for that locale. Localized return reason values should be configured via API: POST /order/api/order/reason/save { "ReasonId": "Damaged", "ShortDescription": "Damaged", "Description": "Items arrived damaged", "EligibleForSelfService": true, "EligibleForContactCenter": true, "ReasonTypeId": "Return", "SequenceNumber": 1, "LocalizedData": [ { "Description": "Items arrived damaged", "LanguageKey": "en", "ShortDescription": "Damaged" }, { "Description": "Artikel sind beschädigt angekommen", "LanguageKey": "de", "ShortDescription": "Beschädigt" }, { "Description": "物品到达损坏", "LanguageKey": "zh", "ShortDescription": "损坏的" } ] } Enable Exchanges By default, exchanges are disabled, meaning users only have the option to return items for a refund. To enable exchanges, set 'Enable Exchanges' to true in the Self Service Config UI. If exchanges are enabled, users will have the option to select Return or Exchange for each item. Otherwise, users can only select Return. For an item to have the Exchange option enabled: The parent order line ‘isExchangeable’ attribute must be true – like the ‘isReturnable’ attribute, this can be used by retailers to deem items such as ‘final sale’ or ‘digital’ items as not returnable or exchangeable. The parent order line delivery method must be ship to address. This means that we have a shipping address which can be used for exchanges. If the delivery method is pick up in store or ship to store, then exchange will be disabled for this item. This is because the self-service UI does not yet have a way to capture a shipping address. When exchanges are enabled, configure the Availability View which should be used to check inventory of exchange items. Set Default Returns Shipping Method Using the Digital Self-Service configuration page, the user can select a default shipping method for returns by selecting the desired method from the ""Self Service Return Shipping Method" dropdown. Set Default Exchange Shipping Method and Change Shipping Method while creating an Exchange Order Using the Digital Self-Service configuration page, the retailer can define a shipping method for an exchange order using one of the two options below: By selecting the desired method from the 'Self Service Exchange Shipping Method' drop-down. This is the only method which will be allowed for exchange orders. If a retailer wishes to allow their customers to change the shipping method for exchange orders, they will need to define those shipping methods in the "Shipping Methods Config" section. The presence of at least one shipping method in this tab indicates that the customer will be allowed to choose a shipping method on the Exchange Preview page. If there are no shipping methods in this tab and there is a shipping method selected in option 1, then that is the shipping method chosen for the exchange order. Note: The MUP UI should be used for adding entries to the 'Shipping Methods Config' section and not the Masterfacade UI. Note: The following set-up choices are considered as misconfigurations: 1. If no shipping method has been defined in the "Shipping Methods Config" section, the 'Self Service Exchange Shipping Method' drop-down is empty. In this case, the customer will see the message "Add Shipping Method" on the Exchange Preview page. 2. If at least one shipping method has been defined in the "Shipping Methods Config" section, however, there is no common set of shipping methods between these methods and allowable shipping methods for items on the exchange order. The implication here is that, the retailer must ensure that at least one shipping method defined in this tab must be a common shipping method allowed for all items in the inventory. For returns and exchange orders created in Digital Self-Service, the order component generates the order Id. However, for some carriers such as UPS, this order ID exceeds the maximum number of characters permitted to be printed on the barcode on the shipping label. For example: UPS only permits 14 alphanumeric characters or 24 numeric characters. To solve these requirements, alternate order ID generation logic can be enabled in the order component. To configure this: In the Self Service Configuration UI, find the Order Type being used for returns created in Digital Self-Service In the Order Type UI, edit this Order Type Enable the 'Generate Order Id' checkbox Configure the Order Id Max Length (this must be between 11 and 19) Optionally configure the Prefix and/or Suffix For example, if using UPS but you want an alphanumeric prefix, you could configure Prefix = SS and Max Length = 12, for a total of 14 alphanumeric characters. Alternatively, you could configure Prefix = 00 and Max Length = 22, for a total of 24 numeric characters. Note: This order ID generation logic is used for any order created with this order type which does not have an order ID specified on creation. Currently, the system generates OrderId using current time in milli sec. For example, if orders or returns from an external system are imported to Active Omni with a null order ID, then this logic is used to populate it. Carrier Integration Out of the box, Digital Self-Service supports return label generation for FedEx and UPS. To integrate with a different carrier, implement the user exit Parcel:Carrier:UserExit:Return. If this user exit is already implemented for contact center returns, no additional work is needed for Digital Self-Service. Estimated Refund Mappings After items are selected for return or exchange, the estimated refund amounts and payment methods are shown in the below format. If the payment method is credit card: ${estimatedRefundAmount} will be refunded to {PaymentHeader.PaymentMethod.AccountDisplayNumber}. Account Display Number should be populated with a user-friendly phrase such as "Visa ending with 1119". If the payment method is gift card: ${estimatedRefundAmount} will be refunded to Gift Card. Account Display Number is not displayed for gift cards, as refunds are typically issued via a new gift card and not returned to the existing gift card. Implementing User Exits for Digital Self-Service Returns and exchanges created in Digital Self-Service share a common set of back-end user exits with returns from all channels. This means that if a user exit has been implemented for contact center returns, it can also be leveraged for returns created in Digital Self-Service or vice-versa. This includes any user exits in the order component or parcel component, as returns from all channels share a common flow within order and parcel. For example, this includes: User Exit Sample Use Cases Parcel:Carrier:UserExit:Return Used to integrate with a new third party carrier Parcel:Carrier:UserExit:PreReturn Used to enhance out of the box carrier integration with additional logic or attributes. For example, this user exit is used to include an additional order Id attribute in the call to Logistyx to be printed on the label. This can also be used to customize the logic used to select a carrier account. For example, carrier account selection is done at the location level out of the box, but this user exit can be used to select carrier location using location and order type. Order:Order:UserExit:EvaluateReturnAgePolicy Used to customize the return age policy logic. Out of the box, the return age is calculated based on the order line's shipped date, and the policy is enforced based on a configured number of days. If a retailer wishes to have a 60-day return policy for regular customers and a 90-day return policy for premium customers, then this user exit can be used. Order:UserExit:CustomeExtensionService1 - 10 Used to trigger custom logic when any mod type occurs. For example, when the 'Add Return Line' mod type is fired, this user exit can be used to populate the line with a custom attribute or customize the logic to select a return center. UI extension points for Digital Self-Service are not shared with contact center. See here for details on what can be customized in the Digital Self-Service UI. Store Returns Configuration 1: Create new TransactionReferenceType for Store Returns Note: The new entry should have the exact values below. Ensure there are no leading or trailing spaces. POST message https://{{url}}/masterdatafacade/api/order/transactionReferenceType/save { "TransactionReferenceTypeId": "POSTCONFIRM_RETURN_ORDER_EDIT", "Description": "Referenced transaction created for In-Store Returns from the Digital Self Service Module to enable Return Order edits post confirmation; as of now supports adding or removing items from Return Order and increasing or decreasing quantity of the items in Return Order." } Printer-less Returns Configuration User Exit & Credentials Configuration for carrier code - FedEx : Step 1: Create extension handler POST message https://{{url}}/order/api/ServiceDefinition/extensionPoint/save { "ComponentId": "Order", "ExtensionPointId": "Order:Order:UserExit:ProcessPaperlessReturnRequest", "IsEvent": false } Step 2: Configure Extension Handler POST message https://{{url}}/order/api/ServiceDefinition/extensionHandler/save { "RegisteredExtensionPoints": [ { "ExtensionPointId": "Order:Order:UserExit:ProcessPaperlessReturnRequest" } ], "ExtensionhandlerRoute": [ { "Destination": "PaperlessReturn", "SourceId": "ON_EVENT", "IsSync": true, "IsDisabled": false, "Process": "/ServiceDefinition/extensionHandler/save", "DestinationId": "paperlessReturnRoute0", "Source": "ON_EVENT", "DisplayName": "PaperlessReturn", "ExtensionhandlerRouteId": "paperlessReturnRoute0" }, { "Destination": "FedExService", "SourceId": "paperlessReturnRoute0", "IsSync": true, "IsDisabled": false, "Process": "/ServiceDefinition/extensionHandler/save", "DestinationId": "paperlessReturnRoute1", "Source": "PaperlessReturn", "DisplayName": "FedExService", "ExtensionhandlerRouteId": "paperlessReturnRoute1" } ], "ExtensionHandlerId": "paperlessReturn", "ManhattanOwnedExtension": true, "ComponentId": "order" } Step 3: Order Service Definition POST message https://{{url}}/order/api/ServiceDefinition/serviceDefinition/save { "ComponentId": "COMPONENT-ORDER", "Url": "COM-MANH-CP-XBOUND:8080/fedexAuthorization", "ServiceId": "FedExService", "ServiceDefinitonParams": [ { "ParameterName": "PROTOCOL", "ParameterValue": "HTTP" }, { "ParameterName": "HTTPMETHOD", "ParameterValue": "POST" }, { "ParameterName": "ISEXTERNAL", "ParameterValue": false } ], "ServiceAuthParams": [ { "ParameterName": "oAuth.serviceId", "ParameterValue": "{:FedExAuthServiceId}" } ] } Step 4: Set up Credentials in XBoundAuth The following credentials, used in the set-up below, will be provided by FedEx to the retailer. The services team should obtain these from retailer. UsernameForFedExService PasswordForFedExService ClientIdForFedExService ClientSecretForFedExService POST message https://{{url}}/xboundauth/api/ServiceDefinition/serviceDefinition/save { "ComponentId": "Xboundauth", "Url": "https://api-sandbox.supplychain.fedex.com/api/sandbox/fsc/oauth2/token", "ServiceId": "FedExAuthService", "ServiceDefinitonParams": [ { "ParameterName": "PROTOCOL", "ParameterValue": "HTTP" }, { "ParameterName": "HTTPMETHOD", "ParameterValue": "POST" }, { "ParameterName": "ISEXTERNAL", "ParameterValue": true } ], "ServiceAuthParams": [ { "ParameterName": "xbound-basic.username", "ParameterValue": "{:XBoundBasicUsernameForFedExService}" }, { "ParameterName": "xbound-basic.password", "ParameterValue": "{:XBoundBasicPasswordForFedExService}" }, { "ParameterName": "x-org-name", "ParameterValue": "ManhFedexRTRestAPITest" } ], "ServiceFormDataParams": [ { "ParameterName": "Content-Type", "ParameterValue": "application/x-www-form-urlencoded" }, { "ParameterName": "grant_type", "ParameterValue": "{:GrantTypeForFedExService}" }, { "ParameterName": "username", "ParameterValue": "{:UsernameForFedExService}" }, { "ParameterName": "password", "ParameterValue": "{:PasswordForFedExService}" }, { "ParameterName": "client_id", "ParameterValue": "{:ClientIdForFedExService}" }, { "ParameterName": "client_secret", "ParameterValue": "{:ClientSecretForFedExService}" }, { "ParameterName": "scope", "ParameterValue": "{:ScopeForFedExService}" } ] } User Exit & Credentials Configuration for carrier code - UPS: Step 1: Create extension handler POST message https://{{url}}/order/api/ServiceDefinition/extensionPoint/save { "ComponentId": "Order", "ExtensionPointId": "Order:Order:UserExit:ProcessPaperlessReturnRequest", "IsEvent": false } Step 2: Configure Extension Handler POST message https://{{url}}/order/api/ServiceDefinition/extensionHandler/save { "RegisteredExtensionPoints": [ { "ExtensionPointId": "Order:Order:UserExit:ProcessPaperlessReturnRequest" } ], "ExtensionhandlerRoute": [ { "Destination": "UPSPaperlessReturn", "SourceId": "ON_EVENT", "IsSync": true, "IsDisabled": false, "Process": "/ServiceDefinition/extensionHandler/save", "DestinationId": "UPS_DTM_API_HandlerRoute0", "Source": "ON_EVENT", "DisplayName": "UPSPaperlessReturn", "ExtensionhandlerRouteId": "UPS_DTM_API_HandlerRoute0" }, { "Destination": "UpsDTMServiceForReturnBarcode", "SourceId": "UPS_DTM_API_HandlerRoute0", "IsSync": true, "IsDisabled": false, "Process": "/ServiceDefinition/extensionHandler/save", "DestinationId": "UPS_DTM_API_HandlerRoute1", "Source": "UPSPaperlessReturn", "DisplayName": "UpsDTMServiceForReturnBarcode", "ExtensionhandlerRouteId": "UPS_DTM_API_HandlerRoute1" } ], "ExtensionHandlerId": "UPS_DTM_API_Handler", "ManhattanOwnedExtension": true, "ComponentId": "order" } Step 3: Set up credentials in KV Store In Key-Value store of the Order component, create the following keys: ups.iShip.logon.name ups.iShip.encrypted.password The values for these keys will be provided by UPS to the retailer. The services team should obtain these from retailer. Step 4: Set up value of the request parameter 'demoFlag' In Key-Value store of the Order component, create the following key: ups.iShip.demoFlag : The value of this key is sent as the value for the request parameter 'demoFlag' in the API call to UPS. It should be set to '0' if the request for a live drop-off package, and it should be set to '1' for a demo drop-off package. Returns and Exchanges Optimized UI Improvements Configuration Navigate to Menu > Proactive > Proactive Menu > Functional Config > Review Behavior Changes. For the record, with ChangeName as 'OM - DSS Returns: Mobile Optimized UI Improvements', set Enabled to 'true'. If not enabled by the Must Enable By Date listed in this UI, the enhanced UI will automatically be enabled on this date. Enable Change Shipping Address for Exchange Orders Configuration When the config, 'Enable Change Shipping Address for Exchange Orders' is enabled, it allows retailers to capture and change the shipping address while creating exchange orders. While creating an exchange order, the default shipping address displayed on the Preview page depends on the delivery type of the customer order. Therefore, the effect of enabling this configuration depends on the delivery type of the customer order : When the delivery type of the customer order is 'Ship To Address', the default shipping address is the customer order's shipping address. Enabling the configuration, thus allows the customer to change this shipping address. When the delivery type of the customer order is anything other than 'Ship To Address', there is no shipping address on the customer order. Enabling the configuration, thus allows the customer to capture a shipping address. Add Additional Item Attributes for Exchange Items Configuration To define attributes for an item, other than the out-of-base attributes, i.e. 'Size' and 'Color', use the 'Item Options Config' section on the Digital Self-Service Config UI page. On the 'Item Options Config' UI page, attributes can be added by providing the values for 'Attribute', i.e. attribute name, 'Display Sequence' and 'Sort Attribute'. Note: The MUP UI should be used for adding entries to the 'Item Options Config' section and not the Masterfacade UI. Feature Scope The following is not supported: New-style exchanges, where the customer wants to select an item of a different style (e.g. exchange a shirt for pants) Hiding the size/color dropdowns, for items which do not use these attributes Scheduling a pickup for returns Returns captured in self-service will never be flagged with a variance, because we do not ask the customer for the item condition. Since item condition is null on the return order, then we have nothing to compare the actual item condition upon receipt. Returns with receipt not expected, where the customer does not ship the item back, cannot currently be captured in Digital Self-Service. Returns for more than 20 order lines in a single transaction How to Test Prerequisite: Include the DSS returns link in the outbound email/text message, e-commerce site, etc. After completing all required configuration for returns: Place an order which gets allocated and released Ship the order using the order event message Check your email inbox/phone for a shipment confirmation (or access via e-commerce site) Launch the DSS returns page by clicking the link To test directly in the browser, without an email/text: Form a URL by filling in the below blue attributes with values from your shipped order: https://<applicationURL>/selfservice/ui/app/return?orderId=<orderId>&token=<order.orderToken>&orgId=<order.organization>#create Use a web browser or phone simulator such as xCode to launch this URL in a browser. Implementation Flavors How to enable printer-less returns for UPS Mail Innovations Base supports printer-less returns for FedEx and UPS. Some customers may use UPS Mail Innovations for their return flows, which utilizes USPS as the first leg of the return. The below configuration and custom implementation is required to enable UPS Mail Innovations printer-less returns. Custom implementation of pre-ship User Exit to populate AncillaryEndorsement field with RETURN_SERVICE. UPS requires USPS Endorsement value to generate the Mail Innovations Shipping Label. Base takes care of translating the AnvillaryEndorsement value to the USPS Endorsement value in the UPS request, but there is no default AncillaryEndorsement value, as there are many scenarios for which this could be populated. Implement Order:Order:UserExit:ProcessPaperlessReturnRequest User Exit and ensure type is set to "QR_CODE" Sample Response { "Messages": null, "dropOffDocument": { "text": "SampleText", "type": "QR_CODE" // pass null for data matrix }, "Extended": {} } How to localize the messages displayed when an item is not returnable Work with the services team to set the following order error codes in the kv store(/kv/localization/com-manh-cp-order/error-codes/en/localization.properties/edit) error.10398=This item is outside the eligible return window. error.10399=Item is not yet shipped. error.10400=Item is cancelled. error.10402=A return has already been initiated for this item. error.10403=Item is not eligible for return or exchange. error.10404=Item is not eligible for return, but an exchange can be initiated. error.10405=Item is eligible for return, but not for exchange. error.10406=Item cannot be returned because it's not fully paid. Extending Carrier Locator Link with Third-Party Carriers in DSS Returns Flow To integrate third-party carriers not supported out of the box to display carrier locator link in the DSS Returns flow, use the UI extension dss-return-find-carrier-location-button-ext. However, note the following limitations: It is currently not possible to display a list of carriers for customer selection on the return preview page, followed by showing the appropriate carrier locator link. Return labels cannot be dynamically generated based on the customer’s selected drop-off location. The return label is created before the carrier locator URL is shown and cannot be modified or regenerated after the selection is made in this UI.