# Return to Shelf Process

**Permalink:** return-to-shelf-process
**Content Length:** 16,448 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:36:12.293131

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Inventory & Fulfillment&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Order Fulfillment&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Return to Shelf ››Return to Shelf Process Return to Shelf Process Staged Pickup OrdersSorted Pickup OrdersConfirm Items&nbsp;UpdatesText MessagingSubstitution during PickingServices Store associates can return the pickup orders to the shelf in the following cases: The customer does not pick up the&nbsp;order&nbsp;within the pickup expiry date.&nbsp; The customer cancels the order after the order is picked by the associate. A customer cancels an order line at the time of pickup. If the order line is canceled because it is fully shorted during picking, then the canceled line cannot be returned to the shelf. If the order line is partially cancelled, then the cancelled quantity is not returned to the shelf. The Return to Shelf feature allows store associates to view the list of expired and canceled orders and return such orders to the store floor. The Return to Shelf feature can be turned on or off based on the configuration. The feature is turned off by default. The feature can be enabled to be effective from a certain date, and this feature can show the&nbsp;list of fulfillments based on a max eligible days configuration.&nbsp;Users can return multiple orders to&nbsp;the shelf. By default, the orders eligible for returning to shelf are sorted by location in ascending order. Users get&nbsp;an option to confirm the items associated with the order before returning the order&nbsp;to the shelf.&nbsp; Expired orders indicate the number of days since the order has expired. Orders are&nbsp;listed to be returned to the shelf based on the&nbsp;date and time calculated using Store Fulfillment Configuration &quot;Maximum number of days allowed for customers to pickup an order&quot;. Example &quot;Maximum number of days allowed for customers to pick up an order&quot; has a value set at 7 days. According to this configuration, let&#39;s say an order becomes eligible for &quot;Confirm Pickup&quot; at 11:00am on day #1, the order will be visible on the &quot;Return to Shelf&quot; list at 11:01am on day #7. If a customer is informed that they have 7 days to pick up the order, they actually do not have until the end of the business day on day 7 to pickup the order as the system does not calculate&nbsp;based on store operating hours. It is possible that&nbsp;stores may be cancelling orders on the &quot;Return to Shelf&quot; list in the morning. If the customer shows up in the afternoon, the order may already be cancelled. To know more on the return to shelf&nbsp;activity during offline mode, please refer to the&nbsp;Store Offline Support&nbsp;page. Staged Pickup Orders Return to shelf orders are displayed differently based on various scenarios. When the&nbsp;sorting functionality is disabled, associates may choose to stage the pickup orders at a single or at multiple locations in the staging area. Since staging is optional, it is also possible that the order is not staged at all. Staging is available at the order level;&nbsp;however, it is possible to stage the same order at multiple staging locations for reasons such as space constraints. Refer to the&nbsp;Staging Process&nbsp;guide for more information.&nbsp; The logic to display return to shelf orders in case of various&nbsp;scenarios is as follows:&nbsp; Order is staged at a single&nbsp;location: store users can view the order as a single record and can return the entire order to the shelf. Order is staged at multiple locations: store users can view&nbsp;the order as a single record and can return the entire order to the shelf. Staging locations for the order are displayed as comma-separated values.&nbsp; Multiple&nbsp;orders are staged at the same location: store users can view and return each order separately.&nbsp;&nbsp; The order is not staged: Store users can view orders for which the location is not specified. Orders without location can be viewed towards the end of the list of orders that are eligible for returning to the shelf. Examples:&nbsp; Scenario Order Staging Location Return to Shelf List View 1. The order is staged at a single&nbsp;location. Order1 A1 Location: A1 Order1 2. The order is staged at multiple locations. Order2 &nbsp;A2 & A3 Location: A2,A3 Order2 3. Multiple orders staged at the same location Order3 Order4 Order5 A4 Location: A4 Order3 ---------------------------- Location: A4 Order4 ---------------------------- Location: A4 Order5 4. The order is not staged Order6 &nbsp; Location: Order6 &nbsp; Note: Ship to Store (Pickup Leg) orders are also eligible for return to the shelf if they are expired or canceled during pickup. Sorted Pickup Orders The following scenarios are possible when the sorting functionality is enabled, and the associate sorts the pickup orders. Since sorting is required in this case, each order line is placed at a single or at multiple sorting locations.&nbsp;Refer to the&nbsp;Sorting Process&nbsp;guide for more information. The logic to display&nbsp;return to shelf orders in case of various&nbsp;scenarios is as follows: &nbsp; Orders are placed at the same sorting location: store users can view separate return to shelf records for each order line. The same location is specified for each order line. Users can view the order line item using the confirm item functionality. One&nbsp;order is placed at multiple sorting locations: store users can view separate return to shelf records for each order line. The location associated with each order line is specified. Multiple orders are placed at the same location: store users can view separate return to shelf records for each order. The same location is specified for each order. An order line is placed at multiple sorting locations (example: Line quantity split): store users can view a single return to shelf record for the order line. Sorting locations for the order line are displayed as comma-separated values. The number of units for the order line are consolidated and displayed at the line level. Example: Scenario Order Order Line Sorting Location Return to Shelf List View 1. The order is placed at the same sorting location Order7 L1 L2 B1 Location: B1 Order7 2.One&nbsp;order is placed at multiple sorting locations Order8 L1 L2 B2 B3 Location: B2 Order8 ------------------------------- Location: B3 Order8 3.Multiple orders are placed at the same location Order9 Order10 L1 L1 B4 B4 Location: B4 Order9 ------------------------------ Location: B4 Order10 4.&nbsp;An order line is placed at multiple sorting locations (example: Line quantity split) Order11 L1 (2 units) L1 (1 unit) B5 B5 &nbsp; &nbsp; Location: B5 Order11 Confirm Items&nbsp; Store users can select the list of orders that are to be returned to the shelf. It is possible to view items associated with the selected orders. If multiple orders are selected for returning to the shelf, then the items associated with these orders are grouped by department. Users can then consolidate these items by department and return them to the respective floor locations. Store users can view important item information to identify the item that is to be returned to the shelf. The item information is Item ID, Description, Style, Color, Size, UPC, Item Image and the number of units to be returned to the shelf. If the same item belongs to multiple orders, then the number of units are consolidated for the item. Items within the same department are systematically sorted by Item ID. If the complete item information is not available in the order, then it is fetched from the item master and&nbsp;displayed at the time of confirming items.&nbsp; Updates When an order or order line is returned to the shelf, the following updates are performed systematically: Order line updates:&nbsp; The order line is identified as a returned to the shelf. The order line status was changed to &quot;Canceled&quot;.&nbsp; Note: CancelReason 2000.000&nbsp;is used to cancel the fulfillment line. This corresponds to the base Customer No Show fulfillment reason. Ensure that this reason code always exists for successful RTS transaction. Order Updates: If all lines of the order are returned to the shelf and if the order is not already picked up, then the order status is changed to &quot;Canceled&quot;. An outbound order cancellation message is posted. This message can be used by Manhattan&#39;s Order Management application, or any external system as needed. Refer to fulfillment cancellation message mentioned in&nbsp;Confirm Pickup Process&nbsp;guide. Note:&nbsp;SIF does not send an outbound message&nbsp;to the inventory component. Text Messaging Store associates have the ability to send a text message to the customer from the Return To Shelf UI. The ability to text is based on configuration, is permission-based, and requires that the customer has opted in to receive text messages. Refer to Curbside Pickup guide for additional information.&nbsp; Substitution during Picking In the Return to Shelf &ldquo;Confirm Items&rdquo; and Order Details UIs, the substitute item details are displayed for the substituted order lines in place of the originally ordered items. For more details on substitution in stores, refer to its documentation here. Services The&nbsp;APIs listed in the following table are referenced in this document. Refer to the API documentation for additional details on&nbsp;each service. Service Component Group Service Endpoint Get Eligible Orders to Return to Shelf Fulfillment fulfillment-list-controller /fulfillment/api/fulfillment/fulfillment/listRTSFulfillments Get Items for Orders being Returned to the Shelf Fulfillment fulfillment-list-controller /fulfillment/api/fulfillment/fulfillment/getRTSItems Update Return to Shelf order Fulfillment fulfillment-process-controller /fulfillment/api/fulfillment/fulfillment/updateReturnShelfOrders &nbsp;