# Returns Overview

**Permalink:** returns-overview
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Order Management/Process & Configuration Guides/Returns & Exchanges/Returns Overview
**Content Length:** 23,856 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:59:05.918861

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Order Management››Process & Configuration Guides››Returns & Exchanges ››Returns Overview Returns & Exchanges Overview Next Returns & Exchanges OverviewTypes of Return FlowsCall Center or Self-Service ReturnsAutomated ReturnsAutomated Returns without a Carrier ScanAutomated Returns with a Carrier ScanStandalone ReturnsReturns with Carrier ScanVariance on Carrier ScanRelated Articles With returns & exchanges, retailers can create and manage customer returns, track return inventory, and issue refunds and exchanges. In the Customer Service returns UI, customer service representatives (CSRs) can create returns and exchanges, override return fees, resend return labels, and track the status of return shipments and refunds. When a return is created, the return credit is carried from the original order to the return order, so that the customer's credit can be applied to an exchange order or refunded when the return items have been received. As return items get received in WMS returns receiving centers, CSRs can see the quantity and disposition of items received. The following returns flows are supported: Call center-initiated returns: The customer calls the call center to create a return order, and a return shipping label to ship the items is emailed to the customer. Automated returns: The retailer provides a return shipping label with the customer's original shipment, and the customer uses the shipping label to ship the items. Optionally, a carrier scan can be used to create an ASN inbound to the receiving center. Customer self-service returns portal: The retailer provides a web portal for customers to initiate returns. When the customer creates a return on the website, the retailer emails the customer a return shipping label to ship the items. Standalone returns: The customer returns an item at POS without a receipt, and no parent order is identified. The POS system can refund the customer based on refund policies. In each of the flows, the customer can select whether the return credit should be refunded or applied to exchange items. Two types of exchanges can be done: same style and new style. In a same style exchange, the customer returns an item in exchange for an item of the same style, but has the option to select a different color or size. A same style exchange often results in a $0 exchange for the customer if the exchange item is priced based on the original order; however, the system can be configured to use the current retail price instead. In a new style exchange, the customer exchanges an item for an item of a new style. A maximum of 20 order lines can be returned on a single return order. This includes returns created in customer service or imported via API. Types of Return Flows Call Center or Self-Service Returns Call center returns are created by CSRs using the Returns UI, and self-service returns are created by customers using a self-service returns portal which a retailer has exposed on the web. In these flows, the CSR or customer identifies the original order and selects the return items, item condition, return reason, and whether the customer wants a refund or exchange. When the return order is confirmed, OM generates a return shipping label to be emailed to the customer. A return ASN can be generated and sent to the return receiving center by translating the publish order message in the integration layer. In this flow, the call center has visibility throughout the return order life cycle. The return center receives the package and notifies OM of the received items, quantities, and conditions. When the ASN verification is sent to OM, OM processes the refund or exchange order. The customer can request a refund, same style exchange, or new style exchange in this flow. Automated Returns Automated Returns without a Carrier Scan In this flow, the execution system creates a return shipping label, registers the tracking number with the carrier, and includes the label with the outbound shipment. If the customer decides to return items, then they affix the return label to their return package and drop it off with the carrier. When no carrier scan is received, the return center creates an ASN to receive item against. The return center receives the package and notifies OM of the received items, quantities, and conditions. Based on the ReturnType flag in the receipt message, OM can create a refund or a same-item exchange for the received item(s). Creating exchanges for a different size, color, or style is not supported for automated returns. Automated Returns with a Carrier Scan In this flow, the execution system creates a return shipping label, registers the tracking number with the carrier, and includes the label with the outbound shipment. If the customer decides to return items, then they affix the return label to their return package and drop it off with the carrier. The carrier scans the package before delivering it to the return center, and this scan generates a message which gets routed to an external system. Upon receiving this carrier feed, the system queries OM to get the original order using a return tracking number. After retrieving the order, the external system then sends an ASN message to the WMS receiving system. This ASN contains all returnable items from the original order, because the carrier scan does not contain item details. The return center receives the package and notifies OM of the received items, quantities, and conditions. Based on the ReturnType flag in the receipt message, OM can create a refund or an even exchange for the received item(s). Creating uneven exchanges is not supported for automated returns. Note: Return Order is not created when Return Order Event - Receipt is interfaced into AO since it may not be a mandatory step in the DC/Warehouse and can be skipped totally. However, Return Order Event - Verification is mandatory and is the step that concludes receipt of the returned item in the DC/Warehouse. While sending the Return order event for an automated return, there will be no return order available, hence there is no need to send the ReturnOrderId as part of the receipt and verification process. It is however important to send the parent order Id  as part of the request to understand the connection between the item that is received and the parent order it is related to. Note: The default return center Configured in the Call center config is for the callcenter flow. For the automated/Blind return flow, the return location will be the same as the fulfilled location of the item. Standalone Returns A "standalone" return is one in which no parent order is stamped on the return line. These are often referred to as "un-receipted" returns in POS. Standalone returns are supported only for POS orders, since the refunding must be executed by an external system such as POS. Standalone returns are not supported for mail-in returns, meaning that if the DC receives an item without a parent order, the refund process must be executed outside of Active® Omni. Returns with Carrier Scan Active® Omni provides the flexibility to refund the customer for returns early in the return order cycle when the return package(s) is carrier scanned through an automatic return tracking process. When return labels are carrier scanned, the return order event type "CarrierScanned" is used to move all the quantities of all the return lines in the return order with isReceiptExpected = true to Carrier Scanned (14000.000) status. The return invoice is created immediately, and the customer is refunded. The carrier scanned donut can be seen across the lines with the respective quantity. When the return labels are successfully carrier scanned. The system assumes that all quantities of all the return lines in the RO with isReceiptExpected = true are carrier scanned. Partial line or partial quantities are not allowed to be moved to this status. Return lines in the RO with isReceiptExpected = false cannot be moved to carrier scanned status. Contact center agents can also filter for carrier scanned orders across the omnifacade order search page. Variance on Carrier Scan When the return receipt and verification process takes place for a carrier scanned return, any item or quantity variance determined can result in a chargeback invoice. The chargeback invoice represents the difference in the amount that was refunded via the carrier scan update and the value of the units that were verified during return receipt. Consider the following example of quantity variance: where 10 items were returned and refunded during the carrier scan, and then only 8 items were received and verified. In this case, the amount associated with the units that do not get returned is charged back, reducing the final total the customer was refunded. Time Item Quantity Unit Price Returned Quantity Return Invoice Chargeback Invoice Refunded Amount T1 Item A 10 $10 0 ($100) N/A $100 T2 Item A 10 $10 8 N/A $20 $80 Consider the following example of item variance: where 10 items were returned and refunded during the carrier scan, and 10 items of a different SKU (that is present on the original order) with a lower value were sent in the return instead. In this case, it is assumed that the original items to be returned will not be received, and those units are canceled and eligible for return and refund on future returns created. The total value of the received items is invoiced in full, along with the total value of the units not received. Time Item Quantity Unit Price Returned Quantity Return Invoice Chargeback Invoice Refunded Amount T1 Item A 10 $10 0 ($100) N/A $100 T2 Item A 0 $10 0 ($50) $100 $50 Item B 10 $5 10 In the Contact Center UI, the chargeback invoice can be seen under the return invoice section on the order. To highlight the variance, the invoiced donut status across the order line will change from green to orange to indicate not all expected quantities were actually received after the carrier scan.  In this scenario, the invoiced donut will show only the actual quantity that was eventually received, with more details in the tooltip across the invoiced status donut. Configuring a payment type as eligible for charge back allows the system to refund returns on carrier scanned status and create a chargeback invoice in case the verified quantity is less than the quantity for which the customer was refunded on carrier scan. Refer to Charge Back Invoice for more details. The "CarrierScanned" event cannot be processed if the return order includes any return line with isReceiptExpected = false or if the parent order does not have a payment method belonging to Payment Type configured for - Eligible For Chargeback = true or the MaxReturnStatus of the return order is greater than Awaiting return (11000.000) Agents also have the ability to mark orders as "Received” to move items to final status in case the items were never received. This can be done if the agents have the necessary permission/grant to use the mark as received button on the return/exchange menu entry. This button is different from the "Process" button, which actually processes the return and generates invoices. The contact center UI will show a maximum of only 4 status donuts across lines in the return/exchange order. Currently, we have Return qty, Carrier scanned, Received and Invoiced status donuts. Note: Chargeback invoice is supported only if 'TaxGateway' is configured as Vertex. If local tax is used, implement the user exit 'Order:Order:UserExit:CallDistributeTaxService' and return the same invoice. Refund at carrier scan will be skipped if the refund payment method on the order is not the original method, or if the eligible chargeback payment method differs from the parent order’s payment method. Related Articles Return VarianceReturns Shipped to Distribution CenterREST APIs and User ExitsTroubleshooting Returns & ExchangesExchangesHow Returns WorkReturn Label Tracking Return Labels