# RFID Cart and Fulfillment

**Permalink:** rfid-cart-and-fulfillment
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Order Management/Process & Configuration Guides/Order Orchestration/Creating and Updating Order/RFID Cart and Fulfillment
**Content Length:** 58,558 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:56:29.762828

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Order Management››Process & Configuration Guides››Order Orchestration››Creating and Updating Order ››RFID Cart and Fulfillment RFID Cart Previous I Next RFID CartOverviewProcess FlowStore Sale TransactionsStore Return TransactionsPost Void TransactionsHistorical Order TransactionsShip from Store TransactionsBOPIS TransactionsShip To Store TransactionsSame Day Delivery TransactionsKnown GapsFeature ScopeServicesImplementation FlavorsHow to send EPC details to OM?How to populate releaseID on the OrderLine.FulfillmentDetail when an order is imported with an already known EPC/SGTIN?TroubleshootingWhy did the unit inventory status not get updated from available to departed for store sale ?Why did the unit inventory status not get updated from available to departed for ship to home transactions?Why did the unit inventory status not get updated from departed to available for store return transactions?Why did the unit inventory status not get updated from departed to available for post void the sale transactions?Related Articles Overview The term RFID stands for Radio Frequency Identification, which uses radio waves to identify items. It is possible to scan item Electronic Product Code(EPC) with handheld or automatic RFID readers for certain store inventory and fulfillment activities using RFID tags embedded at the unit level, as opposed to scanning them with traditional scanners. RFID consists of two components: readers and tags. The antenna in the reader sends radio waves to the tags to identify and capture the information. An example scenario would be a package of t-shirts arriving at a store with a tag attached to each t-shirt. With an RFID reader, the package content can be identified, and individual items can be tracked. . Reader                                                                Tags RFID supports update of inventory unit for store sale and store fulfillment orders (ship to address). Every unit is mapped with an EPC code and a location. EPC is an electronic product code associated with RFID tag. For example, if an item has ten units for packing, the store associates will scan all the ten EPCs during packing. Refer here for more details on how RFID inventory update happens. In a Point of sale (POS) transaction, the items can either be added to the cart by scanning the barcode or through RFID. In case of RFID enablement, each unit EPC code will be passed in the transaction. Refer to the POS Cart Process guide for more details. Process Flow Store Sale Transactions Once the store sale transaction is initiated, the EPC codes will be communicated in an Order Save API call that is made to the Manhattan Active® Omni Order Management. Each item unit will have unique EPC Id and will be created as fulfillment detail record in status open (1000.000) Once the order is confirmed, Order Management will update the fulfillment detail record status to completed (7000.000) Order Management will generate the RFID event (StoreSaleUnitInventoryEvent) for updating the location unit inventory status from 'Available' to 'Departed' in RFID, which owns the master unit inventory. Store Sale Request{ "CurrencyCode":"USD", "RefundRecipient":{ "RefundRecipientId":"Customer" }, "OrderLineCount":0, "OrderLine":[ { "StoreSaleEntryMethod":{ "StoreSaleEntryMethodId":"Keyed" }, "OrderLineSubTotal":30.00, "ItemStyle":"15001", "SmallImageURI":"https://res.cloudinary.com/com-manh-cp/image/upload/NMV4J708-101.jpg", "IsCancelled":false, "IsDiscountable":true, "CancelledOrderLineSubTotal":null, "ItemBrand":"U.S. Polo", "ReturnType":null, "IsPerishable":false, "GiftCardValue":null, "ContextId":"c0f5f2e3-4020-480b-a8bc-315f744435de", "IsPriceOverridden":false, "TotalInformationalTaxes":0, "IsPreSale":false, "HasComponents":false, "ItemMaxDiscountAmount":null, "ItemDepartmentName":"WomensDpt", "IsExchangeable":true, "ItemColorDescription":"Red", "OrderLineAttribute":[ ], "IsReturn":false, "IsTaxOverridden":false, "OrderLineNote":[ ], "TaxOverridePercValue":null, "OrderLineTagDetail":[ ], "OrderLinePickupDetail":[ ], "ShortSelfServiceUrl":null, "ProductClass":"Slacks", "MinFulfillmentStatusId":"1000", "PaymentGroupId":null, "MinFulfillmentStatus":{ "StatusId":"1000" }, "DeliveryMethod":{ "DeliveryMethodId":"StoreSale" }, "TaxOverrideType":null, "TaxableAmount":null, "TotalDiscountOnItem":0.00, "CancelledTotalDiscounts":null, "ReturnLineTotalWithoutFees":0, "IsReturnableAtStore":true, "UnitPrice":30.00, "MaxAppeasementAmount":30.00, "ItemShortDescription":"Casual slacks 30", "CarrierCode":null, "ItemBarcode":"PR0080", "ItemDepartmentNumber":101, "IsReturnable":true, "IsTaxIncluded":false, "IsPriceOverrideable":true, "OrderLinePriceOverrideHistory":[ ], "IsOnHold":false, "IsReceiptExpected":true, "ItemWebURL":"", "OrderLineComponents":[ ], "Process":null, "ItemId":"PR0080", "PhysicalOriginId":"tm-demo-us:80228-1028", "ReturnableLineTotal":0, "SellingLocationId":"tm-demo-us:80228-1028", "IsGift":false, "FulfillmentStatus":"Open", "ParentOrderLineId":null, "TotalCharges":null, "ParentOrderLineType":null, "AddressId":null, "ShipFromAddress":null, "VolumetricWeight":null, "Priority":null, "ItemDeptNumber":"101", "SelfServiceUrl":null, "IsPreOrder":false, "PromisedDeliveryDate":null, "ItemTaxCode":"", "CancelReason":null, "LatestDeliveryDate":null, "StreetDate":null, "OrderLinePromotionRequest":[ ], "AlternateOrderLineId":null, "OrderLinePromisingInfo":null, "DeliveryMethodSubType":null, "DoNotShipBeforeDate":null, "IsItemTaxOverridable":true, "OrderLineChargeDetail":[ ], "ItemSeason":"Spring", "OrderLineTotal":31.50, "ItemDescription":"Casual slacks 30", "IsItemTaxExemptable":true, "Allocation":[ ], "OrderLineVASInstructions":[ ], "PipelineId":"StoreSale", "ItemSize":"L", "IsNonMerchandise":false, "LineType":null, "ShipToLocationId":null, "ShipFromAddressId":null, "IsActivationRequired":false, "LineShortCount":0, "Quantity":1.0, "IsItemNotOnFile":false, "IsPackAndHold":false, "IsGiftCard":false, "CancelComments":null, "MaxFulfillmentStatus":{ "StatusId":"1000" }, "VolumetricWeightUOM":null, "OrderLineExtension1":null, "FulfillmentDetail":[ { "ItemId":"PR0080", "StatusId":"1000", "Quantity":1, "EpcId":"1234567891234567891234567", "Sgtin":"123456789" } ], "UOM":"EA", "OrderLineId":"1", "OriginalUnitPrice":30.00 } ], "CustomerEmail":null, "DoNotReleaseBefore":null, "OrderNote":[ ], "OrderAttribute":[ ], "CustomerCommPref":[ ], "CustomerSignature":null, "RunId":null, "MinFulfillmentStatusId":"1000", "DocType":{ "DocTypeId":"CustomerOrder" }, "PublishStatus":{ "PublishStatusId":"None" }, "UpdatedTimestamp":"2021-04-19T11:24:01.549", "ReturnLabelEmail":null, "ProcessReturnReason":null, "TaxOverrideType":null, "ProcessReturnComments":null, "CancelledTotalDiscounts":null, "OrderMilestoneEvent":[ ], "IsUnArchiveInProgress":false, "MerchSaleLineCount":1, "CustomerIdentityDoc":[ ], "OrgId":"tm-demo-us", "OrderLocale":"en", "IsOrderCountable":false, "OrderCaptureConfig":{ "UpdatedTimestamp":"2021-04-19T11:23:46.356", "CreatedBy":"admin@tm-demo-us.com", "CreatedTimestamp":"2021-04-19T11:23:46.356", "InvoiceTaxModeId":"Quotation", "Process":null, "ReturnInvoiceTaxMode":"ReturnOrderLedger", "TrackDelivery":false, "UpdatedBy":"admin@tm-demo-us.com", "OrgId":"tm-demo-us", "TaxComparisonStrategy":"Jurisdiction", "ContextId":"d9e09091-b3c0-4f47-88f1-f56a1fcdc09d", "Unique_Identifier":"6188314263565021698" }, "CustomerLastName":null, "CapturedDate":"2021-04-19T11:23:46.282", "CustomerTypeId":null, "NextEventTime":null, "TotalDiscounts":null, "CancelLineCount":0, "SelfServiceAttribute":null, "OrderUpdatedBy":[ { "OrgId":"tm-demo-us", "UpdatedByUser":"admin@tm-demo-us.com", "UpdatedBy":"admin@tm-demo-us.com", "UpdatedTimestamp":"2021-04-19T11:23:46.354", "CreatedBy":"admin@tm-demo-us.com", "CreatedTimestamp":"2021-04-19T11:23:46.354", "UpdatedByDate":"2021-04-19", "ContextId":"d9e09091-b3c0-4f47-88f1-f56a1fcdc09d", "Process":null, "Unique_Identifier":"6188314263545011550__admin@tm-demo-us.com__2021-04-19" } ], "ReturnTrackingDetail":[ ], "IsOnHold":false, "Process":null, "IsConfirmed":false, "RefundPaymentMethod":{ "RefundPaymentMethodId":"New" }, "SellingLocationId":"tm-demo-us:80228-1028", "OrderChargeDetail":[ ], "OrderType":{ "OrderTypeId":"mPos Order" }, "CountedDate":null, "TotalCharges":null, "ReturnLineCount":0, "PaymentStatus":{ "StatusId":"1000.000" }, "OrderSalesAssociate":[ ], "Priority":null, "StoreReturnCount":0, "OrderTagDetail":[ ], "OrderSubTotal":30.00, "OrderCaptureDetail":[ { "TillId":null, "UpdatedTimestamp":"2021-04-19T11:23:46.285", "RegisterId":"999", "TransactionType":null, "CreatedBy":"admin@tm-demo-us.com", "CreatedTimestamp":"2021-04-19T11:23:46.285", "DeviceId":"BRW-999999999999", "Process":null, "OperatorId":"admin@tm-demo-us.com", "CaptureDate":"2021-04-19T07:23:46.262", "StoreDisplayId":"1028", "OrgId":"tm-demo-us", "UpdatedBy":"admin@tm-demo-us.com", "CaptureDetailId":"010416171028999000508", "JobClass":null, "ContextId":"d9e09091-b3c0-4f47-88f1-f56a1fcdc09d", "IpAddress":null, "EmployeeId":null, "Unique_Identifier":"6188314262844991426__010416171028999000508" } ], "Payment":[ { "Actions":{ }, "CreatedBy":"admin@tm-demo-us.com", "CreatedTimestamp":"2021-04-19T11:23:52.263", "UpdatedBy":"admin@tm-demo-us.com", "UpdatedTimestamp":"2021-04-19T11:23:52.438", "Messages":null, "OrgId":"tm-demo-us", "PaymentGroupId":null, "CustomerId":"", "IsCancelled":false, "PaymentMethod":[ ], "Status":{ "StatusId":"1000.000" }, "Extended":{ } } ], "SellingChannel":{ "SellingChannelId":"Store" } } Store Sale Event to RFID{ "UnitInventoryEventDTOList="[ { "Event=StoreSaleUnitInventoryEvent", "LocationId=tm-demo-us":80228-1028, Sgtin=SGTIN2_010416171028999000102, EpcId=EPC2_010416171028999000102, ItemId=PR0050, "EventTime=2022-11-29T04":"29":38.269, "FulfillmentId=null", "FulfillmentLineId=null", "PackageId=null", "PackageDetailId=null" } ] } Note: In case the unit inventory is not maintained in RFID, a new record with EPC Id or SGTIN for the location will be created in "Departed" status. Store Return Transactions In store return transactions, after the store return order is initiated, the EPC codes will be communicated in an Order Save API call that is made to Order Management. Once the store return order line has been confirmed, Order Management will generate the RFID event (StoreReturnUnitInventoryEvent) for updating the location unit inventory status from 'Departed' to 'Available' in RFID, which owns the master unit inventory. Store return orders with sales lines, OM generates RFID events, 'StoreSaleUnitInventoryEvent' for store sale lines and 'StoreReturnUnitInventoryEvent' for return lines, to update the location unit inventory status. Disposition codes can be captured during return creation. These inventory disposition codes will be sent on RFID event to move the location inventory unit to the appropriate status. Based on disposition, the supply type will be updated in RFID unit. For the inventory to be moved to the correct status, it is expected that the disposition codes are same across Point of Sale(POS), Order Management, and Store Inventory & Fulfillment (SIF). For externally imported store return orders to update the unit inventory table (RFID event), the Selling Location ID must be present on the order line. Store Return Request{ "OrderId":"010416171028999001100", "OrderLine":[ { "OrderLineId":"1", "ReturnDetail":[ { "ReturnDetailId":"RD_010416171028999001100", "ItemId":"PR0050", "Quantity":"1.0", "UOM":"EA", "EpcId":"EPC1_010416171028999001100", "Sgtin":"SGTIN1_010416171028999001100" } ] } ] } Store Return Event to RFID{ "UnitInventoryEventDTOList="[ { "Event=StoreReturnUnitInventoryEvent", "LocationId=tm-demo-us":80228-1028, Sgtin=SGTIN1_010416171028999001209, EpcId=EPC1_010416171028999001209, ItemId=PR0100, "EventTime=2022-11-28T07":"13":05.914, "FulfillmentId=null", "FulfillmentLineId=null", "PackageId=null", "PackageDetailId=null" }, { "Event=StoreReturnUnitInventoryEvent", "LocationId=tm-demo-us":80228-1028, Sgtin=SGTIN2_010416171028999001209, EpcId=EPC2_010416171028999001209, ItemId=PR0100, "EventTime=2022-11-28T07":"13":05.915, "FulfillmentId=null", "FulfillmentLineId=null", "PackageId=null", "PackageDetailId=null" } ] }, "messages=<null>" ] Post Void Transactions Post Void is a POS process that cancels the confirmed store sale transaction. When a transaction is post voided, Order Management will generate the RFID event (StoreReturnUnitInventoryEvent) for updating the location unit inventory status from 'Departed' to 'Available' in RFID, which owns the master unit inventory. Note: In case the unit inventory is not maintained in RFID, a new record with EPC Id or SGTIN for the location will be created in "Available" status. In case the return is at a different location compared to the purchased location, then the inventory unit location and status is updated to "New location" and "Available" respectively. Historical Order Transactions Many customers import historical store sale or store return or ship to home orders. For such orders, EPC codes can be sent which are captured during the sale. Order Management will not generate any communication to RFID component for inventory unit updates once the order is imported. It is expected that the inventory unit update has already been updated at the time of sale confirmation or order shipment. Ship from Store Transactions Customer orders fulfilled from Manhattan Active® Omni store captures EPC Id or SGTIN during packing and shipping. These are communicated to Order Management during pack and ship events. Once the order line has been shipped, Order Management will update the fulfillment detail record for packed unit from status packed (3700.00) to completed (7000.000) Order Management will generate the RFID event (ShippedToAddress) for updating the location unit inventory status from 'Reserved' to 'Departed' in RFID, which owns the master unit inventory. Ship Event to RFID{ "UnitInventoryEventDTOList="[ { "Event=ShippedToAddress", "LocationId=tm-demo-us":80228-1028, "Sgtin=null", EpcId=EPC_010416171028999000201, ItemId=PR0100, "EventTime=2022-11-29T04":"36":22.538, FulfillmentId=0104161710289990002011, "FulfillmentLineId=null", PackageId=P2_0104161710289990002011, PackageDetailId=1 } ] } Note: In case the unit inventory is not maintained in RFID, a new record with EPC Id or SGTIN for the location will be created in "Departed" status. Note: Whenever OM is deployed, SIF has to suppress messages to the RFId component during ship, which duplicates the unit inventory status update from "Reserved" to "Departed". BOPIS Transactions Customer orders fulfilled from Manhattan Active® Omni store captures EPC Id or SGTIN during Confirm pickup. These are communicated to Order Management during Pick Up event. Once the order line has been PickedUp, Order Management will create the fulfillment detail record for a picked up unit with status 7000.000. Order Management will generate the RFID event (StorePickupUnitInventoryEvent) for updating the location unit inventory status from 'Reserved' to 'Departed' in RFID, which owns the master unit inventory. Ship To Store Transactions Customer orders fulfilled from Manhattan Active® Omni store captures EPC Id or SGTIN during Confirm pickup. These are communicated to Order Management during Pick Up event. Once the order line has been PickedUp (PickupLeg is shipped), Order Management will create the fulfillment detail record for a picked up unit with status 7000.000. Order Management will generate the RFID event (StorePickupUnitInventoryEvent) for updating the location unit inventory status from 'Reserved' to 'Departed' for Pickup location in RFID, which owns the master unit inventory. Same Day Delivery Transactions Customer orders fulfilled from Manhattan Active® Omni store captures EPC Id or SGTIN during shipping. These are communicated to Order Management during ship events. Once the order line has been Shipped, Order Management will create the fulfillment detail record for a picked up unit with status 7000.000. Order Management will generate the RFID event (ShippedToAddress) for updating the location unit inventory status from 'Reserved' to 'Departed' in RFID, which owns the master unit inventory. Known Gaps EPC capture and updates to RFID unit inventory do not take place in the event of a return without a receipt (standalone return) created in Manhattan Active® Point of Sale. This will be addressed in a future release. Feature Scope NA Services The APIs listed in the following table are referenced in this document. Refer to the API documentation for additional details on each service. Service Component Group Service Endpoint Save Order Order Order Services /order/api/order/order/save Fulfillment Event Order OrderEvent Services /order/api/order/fulfillmentevent/receive Implementation Flavors How to send EPC details to OM? EPC details should be sent in order events as follows, Sample order event with EPC details{ "OrderEvent": [ { "EventTypeId": "Ship", "OrderId": "CC10001", "ReleaseLineId": "1", "ReleaseId": "CC100011", "StatusId": "7000", "Item": "GS_ITEM", "Quantity": 1, "FulfillmentInfo": { "PackageId": "PKG-12121", "PackageDetailId": "PKG-DTL-1", "FulfillmentId": "1", "FulfillmentDetailId": "1", "ShipmentId": "1", "PackageDetailUnits": [ { "EpcId": "3036143C7C5E784020000008", "Sgtin": "3036143C7C5E784020000009" } ] } } ] } How to populate releaseID on the OrderLine.FulfillmentDetail when an order is imported with an already known EPC/SGTIN? Implement the 'Order:Order:UserExit:PostCreateRelease' user exit. On release creation, UE gets invoked. Here, populate the Release ID on OrderLine.FulfillmentDetail. Troubleshooting Why did the unit inventory status not get updated from available to departed for store sale ? Verify if the order is confirmed or not. If order is not confirmed, an RFID event will not be generated. If confirmed, proceed to step 2. Verify if the FulfilmentDetail status is updated to 7000 with EPC ID or SGTIN values populated. Check whether the RFID event (StoreSaleUnitInventoryEvent) is published to the rabbit mq and consumed by the RFID component within 1 hr of the confirmed transaction. If the transaction is beyond an hour, verify if the consumer is present or not. Why did the unit inventory status not get updated from available to departed for ship to home transactions? Verify if the order is shipped or not. If order is not shipped, an RFID event will not be generated. If shipped, proceed to step 2. Verify if the FulfilmentDetail status is updated to 7000 with EPC ID or SGTIN values populated upon ship event from fulfillment Check whether the RFID event (ShippedToAddress) is published to the queue and consumed by the RFID component or not. Why did the unit inventory status not get updated from departed to available for store return transactions? Verify if the order is confirmed or not. If order is not confirmed, an RFID event will not be generated. If confirmed, proceed to step 2. Verify if the ReturnDetail is populated with EPC ID or SGTIN upon store return order confirmation Check whether the RFID event (StoreReturnUnitInventoryEvent) is published to the queue and consumed by an RFID component or not. Why did the unit inventory status not get updated from departed to available for post void the sale transactions? Verify if the order is post voided or not ('IsPostVoided' attribute is set to true). Verify if the FulfilmentDetail has EPC ID or SGTIN Check whether the RFID event (StoreReturnUnitInventoryEvent) is published to the queue and consumed by an RFID component or not. Related Articles Retail Orders and Large OrdersReserve Online Pickup in Store (ROPIS) OrdersOrder ValidationQuote OrdersKit ItemsSupersession Items