# RFID Reader - Custom Devices

**Permalink:** rfid-reader-custom-devices
**Content Length:** 19,871 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:36:38.303486

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Common&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store RFID ››RFID Reader - Custom Devices Store RFID - Custom Devices Retailers can&nbsp;use RFID readers other than those which are certified by the base application. The process below explains how to add&nbsp;the custom RFID reader in the Store application.&nbsp; Write a custom Cordova plugin to communicate the Store application with a different RFID scanner. This extension is similar to the barcode scanner custom plugin extension but with the extension id ui-extension-rfid-scanner. Steps to follow: Write a custom plugin. For Apple implementations, use the&nbsp;JSON metadata: { &quot;ScreenId&quot;: &quot;inline-extensions&quot;, &quot;Extensions&quot;: [{ &quot;ExtensionId&quot;: &quot;ui-extension-rfid-scanner&quot;, &quot;ExtensionDetail&quot;: [{ &quot;ExtensionType&quot;: &quot;inline&quot;, &quot;ExtensionProperties&quot;: { &quot;URL&quot;: &quot;&quot;, &quot;objName&quot;: &quot;TslRfidScanner&quot;, &quot;iosImpl&quot;: true } }] }] } For Android implementations, use the&nbsp;JSON metadata: { &quot;ScreenId&quot;: &quot;inline-extensions&quot;, &quot;Extensions&quot;: [{ &quot;ExtensionId&quot;: &quot;ui-extension-rfid-scanner&quot;, &quot;ExtensionDetail&quot;: [{ &quot;ExtensionType&quot;: &quot;inline&quot;, &quot;ExtensionProperties&quot;: { &quot;URL&quot;: &quot;&quot;, &quot;objName&quot;: &quot;HoneywellTest&quot;, &quot;androidImpl&quot;: true } }] }] } Replace the objName with the plugin.xml clobbers target. Add a custom plugin to the build in Jenkins. Below is a table format of required plugin methods: Method name &nbsp; Description &nbsp; Params &nbsp; Return (string) &nbsp; showAvailableReaders() This method returns a reader that has been paired to the device. None Success callback - An identifier of the reader paired to the device. Error callback - Any exception caught by plugin. lostConnectionToReader() This method returns if the app has lost connection to the reader. It is an observable function which you subscribe to. None Success callback - &ldquo;true&rdquo; disconnectFromReader() This method disconnects our app from the reader. None Success callback - &ldquo;true&rdquo; Error callback - Any exception caught by plugin. startScanRfid() This method enables the reader so that it is now ready to start reading tags. None Success callback - &ldquo;true&rdquo; Error callback - Any exception caught by plugin. stopScanRfid() This method disables the reader so that it can no longer read tags. None Success callback - &ldquo;true&rdquo; Error callback - Any exception caught by plugin. clearReaderMemory() This method clears the reader&#39;s memory of any tags it has read (so that you can read the same tag once again). None Success callback - &ldquo;true&rdquo; Error callback - Any exception caught by plugin. readTags() This method returns each tag that is read by the reader. When the user pulls the trigger, a string &ldquo;START&rdquo; is returned. When the user releases the trigger, a string &ldquo;STOP&rdquo; is returned. None Success callback - When the user pulls the trigger, &ldquo;START&rdquo; is returned. Then each tag that is read is returned. When the user releases the trigger, &ldquo;STOP&rdquo; is returned. Error callback - Any exception caught by the plugin. setTagReportingUnique() This method configures the reader so that it will only report unique tags that it has read (no duplicates). None Success callback - &ldquo;true&rdquo; Error callback - Any exception caught by the plugin. tagReadLimit() This method sets a limit on how many tags can be read on a single trigger pull. For example if 1 is passed to this method, the reader will read at most 1 tag each time the trigger is pulled (even though there may be more than 1 tag within range). To have no limit, pass 0 to this function. Limit - Number of tags. Pass 0 to have no limit. Success callback - &ldquo;true&rdquo; Error callback - Any exception caught by the plugin. setShortRange() This method configures the reader to a short range (have to be closer distance to tags in order to read). None Success callback - &ldquo;true&rdquo; Error callback - Any exception caught by the plugin. setMediumRange() This method configures the reader to the medium range. None Success callback - &ldquo;true&rdquo; Error callback - Any exception caught by the plugin. setLongRange() This method configures the reader to a longer range. None Success callback - &ldquo;true&rdquo; Error callback - Any exception caught by the plugin. getReaderMode() This method gets which mode the reader is currently in. None Success callback - &ldquo;RFID&rdquo; or &ldquo;BARCODE&rdquo; Error callback - Any exception caught by the plugin. scanBarcode() This method returns each barcode that is scanned by the reader. None Success callback - &ldquo;true&rdquo; Error callback - Any exception caught by the plugin. startMultiTagLocate() This method returns the nearest tag from the reader among list of EPC&rsquo;s passed. When the user pulls the trigger, &ldquo;START&rdquo; is returned. When the user releases the trigger, &ldquo;STOP&rdquo; is returned. epcTags - Array of EPC tags to be located. Success callback - When the user pulls the trigger, &ldquo;START&rdquo; is returned. Then the nearest EPC from the reader is returned. When the user releases the trigger, &ldquo;STOP&rdquo; is returned. Error callback - Any exception caught by the plugin. startSingleTagLocate() This method returns the distance (0-100) of the EPC passed from the reader. When the user pulls the trigger, &ldquo;START&rdquo; is returned. When the user releases the trigger, &ldquo;STOP&rdquo; is returned. tag - Single EPC Success callback - When the user pulls the trigger, &ldquo;START&rdquo; is returned. Then the distance (0-100) of the EPC is returned. When the user releases the trigger, &ldquo;STOP&rdquo; is returned. Error callback - Any exception caught by the plugin. getReaderDetails() This method returns the currently connected Bluetooth RFID reader details such as Device Name, Model Name and Battery percentage. None Success callback - Reader details object as JSON string &#39;{&quot;deviceName&quot;:&quot;RFD850017355523020588&quot;,&quot;modelNumber&quot;:&quot;RFD8500-5000100-US&quot;,&quot;batteryLevel&quot;:41}&#39; Error callback - Any exception caught by plugin. showAllAvailableReaders() This method returns the list of Bluetooth RFID readers which have previously been paired with the Store device (Android only) None Success callback - List of previously paired RFID readers as JSON array [&ldquo;RFD850017355523020588&quot;,&quot;RFD40+_23194520101625&quot;] Error callback - Any exception caught by plugin. connectToReader() This method connects our app to the reader. selectedRFidReaderSettings&nbsp;(device configuration) - RFID reader settings object sent for POS flows (Optional) readerName&nbsp;- string which contains the specific reader to which the connection needs to be established (Optional) Success callback - &ldquo;true&rdquo; Error callback - Any exception caught by plugin.