# Rolling Capacity to the Next Day/Shift

**Original Permalink:** rolling-capacity-to-next-day/shift
**Safe Filename:** rolling-capacity-to-next-day__shift
**Content Length:** 13,946 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:22:42.148893

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Enterprise Inventory&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Capacity Management ››Rolling Capacity to the Next Day/Shift Rolling Capacity to the Next Day/Shift Previous | Next &nbsp; OverviewProcess FlowExamplesCapacity Scheduler Auto-correction ScenariosConfigurationScheduler to Rollover Capacity to Next Day/Shift&nbsp;Implementation FlavorsRelated Articles&nbsp; Overview At the beginning of a shift, the system checks if there are any unfulfilled orders from the previous shift. If any exist, the new shift starts with a backlog of those unfulfilled orders. This backlog is also applied to the total utilized capacity of the location to prevent over-utilization. The capacity Full attribute is also updated if the previous backlog meets or exceeds the location&#39;s max capacity. &nbsp;Rollover logic is performed by the capacity scheduler. Capacity Scheduler will rollover the shifts by considering the Locations Timezone, if defined. Refer to Rollover scheduler for additional information. Process Flow Examples Example 1: Assume that the capacity definition for Store 1 is defined at the order level: &nbsp; Location Id&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; Day of Week&nbsp; Start Time &nbsp;End Time&nbsp; &nbsp;Max Backlog&nbsp; Max Capacity Store 1&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Monday&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; 7.30&nbsp; 14.00 60 &nbsp;100 Store 1&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Tuesday&nbsp;&nbsp; 7:30&nbsp; 14..0 40 75 On Monday, Store 1 accepted a total of 80 orders. The current backlog of 25 indicated that 55 (80-25) out of the 80 orders were shipped. The backlog and utilized capacity for the end of Monday (14.00) are: Location Id&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; Current Backlog&nbsp; &nbsp;Total Capacity Utilized Store 1&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; 25 80 The 25 unfilled orders rolled over from Monday to Tuesday. On Tuesday at 7:30, the utilized capacity for Store 1 begins at 25. Thus, the remaining available capacity for Tuesday is 75 - 25 = 50 orders. Location Id&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Current Backlog&nbsp; Total Capacity Utilized Store 1 25 25 Example 2: &nbsp;Assume that Tuesday has just enough capacity to fulfill the unshipped orders from the previous day. Also, assume that the capacity definition for Store 1 is defined at the order level: Location Id&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Day of Week &nbsp;Start Time &nbsp;End Time Max Backlog Max Capacity Store 1&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Monday&nbsp; 7:30 14:00 60 100 Store 1&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Tuesday&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; 7:30&nbsp; 14:00&nbsp; 10&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; 20 On Monday, Store 1 accepted a total of 80 orders. The current backlog of 25 indicated that 55 (80-25) out of the 80 orders were shipped. The backlog and utilized capacity at the end of Monday (14:00) are: Location Id&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Current Backlog Total Capacity Utilized Store 1&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; 25 80 On Tuesday morning 7:30, the new shift starts with the current backlog of 25 orders pending from the previous day. This is more than the max capacity defined for the location. The backlog and total utilized capacity for Tuesday at 7:30 are updated as follows. In addition, the Capacity Full attribute for the location is set to true. Location Id&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Current Backlog &nbsp;Total Capacity Utilized Store 1&nbsp; &nbsp; 25 25 &nbsp; Location Id&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Capacity Full Store 1 True &nbsp; Note: Scheduler will always consider Non-Shipped Orders for calculating total capacity utilized and current backlog. Even if capacity utilization information [Total Capacity Utilized and Current Backlog.] is manually updated, the scheduler will override the information based on the non-shipped information for that location. Capacity Scheduler Auto-correction Scenarios To make sure that at the end of a shift, all units of capacity are accounted for, when the capacity scheduler runs and changes the shift, it will gather from the reservation table, all the open reservation for a given location and will update the capacity utilization and the backlog for the next shift accordingly. This ensures that all units of capacity are accounted for and that no location blocks more units of capacity than is required.&nbsp; Configuration Scheduler to Rollover Capacity to Next Day/Shift&nbsp; Scheduler - Capacity rolloverCapacity Scheduler - LocationCapacityJob can be configured to roll over the current backlog to the new shift/day Implementation Flavors NA Related Articles&nbsp; Managing High Utilization LocationsOverviewCapacity as a Constraint & OptimizationHow Capacity WorksReleasing CapacityRest APIs & User Exits &nbsp;