# ROPIS Orders

**Permalink:** ropis-order
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Order Management/Process & Configuration Guides/Order Orchestration/Creating and Updating Order/Reserve Online Pickup in Store (ROPIS) Orders
**Content Length:** 31,914 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:56:32.840879

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Order Management››Process & Configuration Guides››Order Orchestration››Creating and Updating Order ››ROPIS Orders Reserve Online Pickup in Store (ROPIS) Orders Previous I Next Reserve Online Pickup in Store (ROPIS) OrdersOverviewProcess Flow Eligibility Criteria to Create ROPIS OrderROPIS order updatesOther Restrictions related to ROPIS order updatesROPIS Order Fulfillment in StoresROPIS Cancelation during PickupROPIS with an External POS ApplicationROPIS with the Manhattan Active POS ApplicationROPIS with an External POS Integrated with Manhattan Active OmniSubstitution Support for ROPIS OrdersStore ConfigurationLocations - Location Fulfillment Attribute - Manhattan Active POSPOS Barcode RulesStore Fulfilllment Parameters - Skip customer signature capture before confirm pickupStore Fulfilllment Parameters - Skip customer signature for the pickup subtypesFeature ScopeServicesImplementation FlavorsTroubleshootingROPIS order behaves like a normal BOPIS orderUnable to see the pay button in the Confirm Pickup details UIThe Pay button is disabledThe Back to Order Details button is disabledPOS Transaction and Gift Receipts are not printedUIs and Entities Overview With Manhattan Active® Omni, Reserve Online Pickup In Store (ROPIS) orders can be created and fulfilled using Manhattan Active® Omni Store Inventory & Fulfillment (SIF) in conjunction with Manhattan Active® Omni Point of Sale (POS). ROPIS orders are captured without payment, meaning that the inventory is reserved or customer pickup without collecting the payment upfront. In many instances, external Point of Sale applications can be used for purchasing the same items as in-store purchases and marking the ROPIS order as picked up. Also, in some cases, external Point of Sale integrated with Manhattan Active Omni® can capture payment and complete the pick-up process against the existing ROPIS order itself. Here's how it works: A customer places a ‘Reserve Online Pickup At Store’ order on the retailer's e-commerce website. The e-commerce platform sends the order (Delivery Method ID = PickUpAtStore & Is ROPIS = true) to Manhattan Active® Omni for its fulfillment. The items are released with a ROPIS indicator to the store for processing. The Ready for Pickup notification is sent to customers when the store completes the picking process. Customers walk into the store to try items. The customer wishes to buy and a store associate captures payment using Manhattan Active® Omni POS or external POS integrated with Manhattan Active® Omni or a store associate rings a new store sale transaction via external POS. The ROPIS order is updated to fulfilled. Process Flow Eligibility Criteria to Create ROPIS Order Validation Example A ROPIS order can only contain ROPIS lines identified with the isROPIS flag on the order line. Order Line 1 > ItemA.isROPIS = true Order Line 2 > ItemB.isROPIS = true ROPIS line items can only be in-store pickup with the delivery method as "PickUpAtStore" and delivery method subtype as "Instore" or "null" Order Line 1 > ItemA > DeliveryMethod=PickUpAtStore and Delivery MethodSubType=Instore Order Line 2 > ItemB > DeliveryMethod=PickUpAtStore and Delivery MethodSubType=Instore All ROPIS line items can only be picked up from the same store. Order Line 1 > ItemA > DeliveryMethod=PickUpAtStore and Delivery MethodSubType=Instore > ShipToLocationId=StoreAtlanta Order Line 2 > ItemB > DeliveryMethod=PickUpAtStore and Delivery MethodSubType=Instore > ShipToLocationId=StoreAtlanta ROPIS order updates Like any order updates, ROPIS order updates are allowed during the remorse period, if any. During the remorse period, customers can call and request for updates on order to update the quantity, cancel line or cancel order or change of pick-up location and other applicable updates. Order orchestration processes the updates based on order modification rules. Other Restrictions related to ROPIS order updates Validation Example Ship It Instead conversion from DSS or using order APIs for ROPIS items is restricted. Customers are not allowed to convert ROPIS orders to ship to home due to the fact that payment is not captured upfront on ROPIS order. And also, Manhattan Active® Omni Order Management does not support informing SOF to collect payment on converted orders yet. Return order creation from Contact Center or DSS or via order APIs for ROPIS orders with External POS is restricted. CSR or customers using DSS or retailers bridging in return order for ROPIS order captured for a store with external POS(LocationFulFillmentAttr.isManhttanActivePOS=false) is restricted. Payment capture on Released External POS ROPIS order is restricted (via Order or Payment API or after entering the payment from the contact center) Adding payment to the Released ROPIS Order (isROPIS = true and maxFulfillmentStatus=3000.000) with external POS (LocationFulFillmentAttr.isManhttanActivePOS=false) is restricted. ROPIS Order Fulfillment in Stores On receiving a ROPIS order, Manhattan Active® Omni reserves inventory at the requested pickup store and then releases the order to the store for further orchestration. Store Associates at the designated pickup store pick the ordered items and, optionally, stage them for the customer pickup. The Confirm Pickup/Contact Customer lists signify Reserve Online Pickup in Store orders with a ROPIS indicator. This indicator lets the Store Associate know that this pickup at store order was placed without any payment at the time of creation of the order. However, a ROPIS order, integrated with Manhattan Active POS or an external POS seamlessly integrated with Manhattan Active Omni, may be paid for using the Contact Center (partially or completely; out of the box) or the Digital Self Service app (completely; out of the box) anytime right until its pickup. To keep the Store Associates apprised of the current payment status of a ROPIS order, a Payment Required or Paid indicator is displayed on the Confirm Pickup/Contact Customer details. When these details are loaded, a balance due check API call is made and if the balance due is found to be greater than zero, a Payment Required indicator is displayed. On the other hand, if the balance due is zero, paid is displayed. Moreover, a zero balance due implies that the ROPIS order behaves as a standard Buy Online & Pickup in Store order, i.e., the customer need not pay any amount anymore, and they can walk away with the ordered items just by following the due pickup process. Note: Customer Service & DSS pre-payments are applicable to only those retailers who decide to implement the Manhattan Active POS and Manhattan Active Omni integrated external POS flows for capturing the pending payments of ROPIS orders. ROPIS Cancelation during Pickup At the time of order pickup, a customer may not like one or more items that they have ordered and decide to cancel them. To ensure that the customer is charged only for the items that they decide to pickup, it is important that the order details are updated right away so that the order total can be recalculated. Considering this, the ROPIS order cancelations are made synchronous. This is in contrast to the asynchronous cancelations which are done for standard BOPIS order as they are prepaid and only refunds need to be processed for the canceled units. Synchronous cancelations kick in as soon as the Store Associates confirm them, and they cannot be reversed. Cancelations can be carried out using the Confirm Pickup and the Contact Customer details. ROPIS with an External POS Application When a customer has decided on the items that they want to take home, the Store Associate can confirm them: As part of the external POS integration Confirm Pickup process, a reminder is displayed to the Store Associate asking them to ensure that the respective ROPIS order is paid for using an external register. As part of this process, the Store Associate may ring in a new Store Sale transaction. Once the Store Associate confirms that the ROPIS order is paid, a Fulfillment attribute, considerROPISPaid is marked as true. This attribute is sent as part of the Fulfillment Outbound message and can be leveraged for auditing purposes. Next, the order is marked as Fulfilled. Also, the uncanceled quantities are reversed, thereby allowing the external POS system to update the supply appropriately. ROPIS with the Manhattan Active POS Application When a customer has decided on the items that they want to take home, the Store Associate can confirm them: As part of the Manhattan Active POS integration, if the balance due on the order is greater than zero, a payment facility is displayed. When the customer is ready to pay for the order, the payment facility redirects to the Point of Sale Order Summary to facilitate the payment of the ROPIS order. The Point of Sale Order Summary displays the correct balance after considering any prepayments which may have been made. The customer can choose to pay using one or more applicable payment tenders. As long as no tender is applied, the customer can go back and forth between the POS Order Summary and the Confirm Pickup Order Details to make edits to the order. Once the required payment is completed, the retailer has the option to capture the customer's signature. After capturing the signature, the transaction and gift receipts can be printed and emailed to the customer. Also, once the payment is completed, a Fulfillment attribute, considerROPISPaid is marked as true. This attribute is sent as part of the Fulfillment Outbound message and can be leveraged for auditing purposes. Next, the order is marked as Fulfilled. Also, the POS electronic journal is updated with this transaction. Manhattan Active® Omni supports ROPIS integration with an external POS application, which is assumed to be not seamlessly integrated with Manhattan Active Omni, by default. Refer to the Locations configuration for switching to the Manhattan Active® POS integration. ROPIS with an External POS Integrated with Manhattan Active Omni When a customer has decided on the items that they want to take home, the Store Associate can confirm them: As part of the Manhattan Active POS integration, if the balance due on the order is greater than zero, a payment facility is displayed. From here on, customizations are required to: Tapping on the payment facility should display an appropriate message which asks the Store Associate to capture the payment of the order in the external POS Ensure that the updated order (if applicable) is displayed in the external POS and that the required payment is captured Update the payment in Manhattan Active Omni Once the payment is confirmed, relay pickup confirmation to Manhattan Active Omni Pickup confirmation should mark the order as fulfilled. No inventory is reversed as no new store sale transaction is created on the external POS application. Manhattan Active® Omni supports ROPIS integration with an external POS application, which is assumed to be not seamlessly integrated with Manhattan Active Omni, by default. Refer to the Locations configuration for switching to an external POS application which is fully integrated with Manhattan Active Omni. Substitution Support for ROPIS Orders In the event that a store associate is unable to fulfill an item ordered as part of a reserve online and pickup in store order working in conjunction with a non-integrated external point of sale application, they can substitute it with a like or closely resembling alternative if substitution is enabled in their respective store. A substitution can be performed if the store associate fails to find the ordered item in their store due to an incorrect enterprise inventory picture or if the ordered item is found but is not in a sellable condition, thereby reducing order cancellations, protecting store and retailer revenue, and improving customer service. For more details on substitution in stores, refer to its documentation here. Store Configuration The following configurations affect the ROPIS order behavior in the Store app. Locations - Location Fulfillment Attribute - Manhattan Active POS This flag is used when processing ROPIS (Reserve Online Pickup in Store) orders. Mark as true if using Manhattan Active Point of Sale (POS) or an external POS that is integrated with Manhattan Active Omni. Set as false if using an external POS that is not integrated with Manhattan Active Omni. Null is considered as false. This configuration is available in the Location Fulfillment Attributes of the Locations UI and is disabled by default. Configuration Name: Integrated Point of Sale POS Barcode Rules POS Barcode Rules need to be mandatorily configured for POS Transaction and Gift Receipts to print appropriately. Retailers are advised to work with the Services teams to ensure that the required barcode rules are configured in POS for the Active POS ROPIS flow to work as designed. Store Fulfilllment Parameters - Skip customer signature capture before confirm pickup If this flag is enabled, customers' signatures are not captured when the ROPIS orders are picked up. This configuration is available in the Store Fulfillment Parameters UI and is disabled by default. Configuration Name: Skip customer signature capture before confirm pickup Store Fulfilllment Parameters - Skip customer signature for the pickup subtypes A ROPIS order is bridged in with the Delivery Method Sub Type ID as either null or InStore. If customers' signatures are required to be captured at the time of pickup, ensure that the "InStore" Delivery Method Sub Type is not configured in this configuration. This configuration is available in the Store Fulfillment Parameters UI and its default value is "Curbside". Configuration Name: Skip customer signature for the pickup subtypes Feature Scope ROPIS order creation from a contact center is not allowed. ROPIS order cannot be picked up on Curbside. Sell more options using Manhattan Active® Omni Store Inventory & Fulfillment is not allowed. Services The APIs listed in the following table are referenced in this document. Refer to the API documentation for additional details on each service. Service Component Group Service Endpoint Save Order Order Order Services /order/api/order/order/save Release Order Order Release Services /orderapi/order/order/{orderID}/release Fulfillment Event Order OrderEvent Services /order/api/order/fulfillmentevent/receive Balance Due Check Order Order Service /order/api/order/order/orderId/{{OrderId}}?templateName=balanceDueTemplate Synchronous Cancelation Order OrderEvent Services /order/api/order/orderevent/receive Implementation Flavors Support ROPIS order capture and fulfillment using Manhattan Active® Omni Order Management, Store Inventory & Fulfillment and Point of Sale. Capture order using Save Order services Release order to SIF for fulfillment skipping payment status check on release template filter, if any for ROPIS orders only. Balance is due indicator is displayed Customer tries the items The customer decides to buy the item, the store associate captures payment against an existing ROPIS order from Manhattan Active® Omni POS. The ROPIS order is fulfilled, and a shipment invoice is created. Process payment against ROPIS order and payment status will move to paid. Support ROPIS order capture and fulfillment using Manhattan Active® Omni Order Management, Store Inventory & Fulfillment and External POS Capture order using Save Order services Release order to SIF for fulfillment skipping payment status check on release template filter, if any for ROPIS orders only. Balance is due indicator is displayed Customer tries the items The customer decides to buy the item, the store associate rings a new store sale transaction and captures payment against the store sale line. Store sale purchase will reduce the supply quantity in Inventory Management. The ROPIS order is fulfilled based on store associate acknowledgment of payment capture on the external terminal. External POS to handle actual supply updates for picked up quantity. OM reverses the allocated qty in Inventory Management. ROPIS orders will not have any shipment invoices created post fulfillment and payment status remains not applicable. Support ROPIS order capture and fulfillment using Manhattan Active Omni® Order Management, Store Inventory & Fulfillment and External POS integrated with Manhattan Active Omni® Capture order using Save Order services Release order to SIF for fulfillment skipping payment status check on release template filter, if any for ROPIS orders only. Balance is due indicator is displayed Customer tries the items The customer decides to buy the item, the store associate captures payment against an existing ROPIS order from an external POS integrated with Manhattan Active Omni® The store associate confirms the pickup against an existing ROPIS order from an external POS integrated with Manhattan Active Omni® The ROPIS order is fulfilled, and a shipment invoice is created. The payment will be processed/associated to the invoice and payment status will be updated to paid. Support ROPIS order capture and fulfillment using DOM, Manhattan Active® Store Inventory & Fulfillment and External POS Similar to the use case 2 above, except for balance is due determination on SIF should happen by calling external payment via custom extensions. Troubleshooting ROPIS order behaves like a normal BOPIS order Ensure that the order is bridged in with an isROPIS indicator. A ROPIS order is indicated by a "ROPIS" indicator in the Confirm Pickup and Contact Customer List UIs. Also, a Payment Required/Paid indicator is shown on the details UIs. Unable to see the pay button in the Confirm Pickup details UI External POS ROPIS integrations do not show the PAY button. ROPIS orders integrated with an external POS system are supposed to be paid using an external register and thus, a PAY button is not required. If ROPIS orders are meant to be integrated with Manhattan Active POS, then ensure that: 1) Manhattan Active POS flag is set as true in the Locations Fulfillment Attributes tab of the Locations UI 2) Order has not been paid in full using DSS or Customer Service (such orders are denoted by a Paid indicator in the Confirm Pickup and the Contact Customer details UIs) The Pay button is disabled Ensure that the required UI resource is assigned to the role of the user trying to use the button. See Store Fulfillment UI Resources for more details. The Back to Order Details button is disabled Ensure that the required UI resource is assigned to the role of the user trying to use the button. See POS Resources for more details. POS Transaction and Gift Receipts are not printed POS Barcode Rules need to be mandatorily configured for POS Transaction and Gift Receipts to print appropriately. Retailers are advised to work with the Services teams to ensure that the required barcode rules are configured in POS for the receipts to print as expected. UIs and Entities The configuration UIs mentioned in this document are listed in the following table. This information can be used to navigate to API documentation and also specifies whether the configuration can be overridden at the location level. UI Name Component Group Seed Data Present? Seed Data Profile Locations Organization Not Applicable No Not Applicable Store Fulfillment Parameters Fulfillment Fulfillment Parameters Yes Base