# Rule Type Available Attributes

**Permalink:** rule-type-available-attributes-2
**Content Length:** 6,823 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:34.572788

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Configurations&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Common ››Rule Type Available Attributes Rule Type Available Attributes &nbsp; Rule Type Available AttributesFiltersCreating a Rule Type Available AttributesDeleting Rule Type Available AttributesField DescriptionAction Buttons The rule type available attributes UI lists the available attributes&nbsp;by&nbsp;rule type for a given component. The available attributes can be mapped to the rule type from this UI. Unlike the available attributes UI, this UI does not require a user to be a system admin. In this UI, the user can delete the available attributes. User can also create new rule available attributes by specifying rule type, entity, and attribute. &nbsp; Filters The rule type available attributes filters are: 1)&nbsp;Rule Type Id 2)&nbsp;Entity Id 3)&nbsp;Attribute Id &nbsp; Creating a Rule Type Available Attributes To create a new rule type for an available attribute: Select the allocation component name from the filter panel. Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Configuration&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Common &gt; Rule Type Available Attributes Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Click&nbsp;Create&nbsp;to view the&nbsp;Rule Type Available Attribute&nbsp;window. Select the&nbsp;Rule Type Id&nbsp;of an attribute&nbsp;from the drop-down list. The available options are Allocation Policy (item entity) and Auto Submit Approval Criteria (supply entity). Select the&nbsp;Entity Id of an attribute from the drop-down list. Select the Attribute Id of an attribute from the drop-own list. Click Save. Deleting Rule Type Available Attributes The available attribute&nbsp;records can be deleted by following one of the below procedures: Swipe-out List Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Configuration&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Common &gt; Rule Type Available Attributes Swipe-out menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts as &#39;This action will delete selected Rule Type Available Attribute&#39;. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the rule type&nbsp;available attribute. Delete Select the required record card. The footer section with action buttons is displayed. Select&nbsp;Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts as &#39;This action will delete selected Rule Type Available Attribute&#39;. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the rule type available attribute. Field Description Following are the field descriptions of the rule type&nbsp;attributes available on the screen. &nbsp; Field &nbsp;Description Rule Type Id&nbsp; The rule type id of an available attribute. Entity Id The source entity to which the attribute ID belongs. Attribute Id The name of the rule type of attribute. &nbsp; Action Buttons Following are the action buttons available on the screen. &nbsp; Select All Rows Selects all the rows of records on the screen. Export Exports the list of available attributes, and the file will be downloaded onto your system. View&nbsp;Export&nbsp;for more information. Create Opens the Rule Type&nbsp;Available Attribute&nbsp;window.&nbsp; Deselect Clears the selected records. Delete Deletes the selected record.