# Sample Receipts

**Permalink:** sample-receipts
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Store/Process & Configuration Guides/Point of Sale/POS Guides/Sample Receipts
**Content Length:** 53,088 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:02:00.024144

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Store››Process & Configuration Guides››Point of Sale››POS Guides ››Sample Receipts Sample Receipts There are different receipts that are created in the Manhattan Active Omni Point of Sale (POS) system.  Outside of the base code, these documents will be created at the conclusion of each transaction (if the retailer does not choose to post receipt data for their own distribution), and can be printed via a receipt printer, emailed, or both. Manhattan Active Omni Point of Sale (POS) system also provides the ability to reprint these receipts. While reprinting, the details are retrieved from the Receipt Component. Along with other order details, an Email Recipient field is also added in the Receipt component which stores the email address captured on the Process Receipt screen.  This is populated in the event the user chooses to email the receipt at the conclusion of the order, in addition to or instead of printing a hard copy.  This email address is stored for reference and is not displayed anywhere in the POS system. If required, customers can retrieve this email address for each transaction by orderID/store/register from the default_receipt database. select TRANSACTION_ID,STORE_ID,REGISTER_ID,EMAIL_RECIPIENTS from default_receipt.RCT_RECEIPT_REPORT_DATA; The following are the sample receipts from the Manhattan Active Omni Point of Sale (POS) system. Receipt Type Description Sample Receipt In Store Sale Transaction - US Tax This receipt is printed when an in-store purchase is made. Sale Receipt with Rounding Adjustment This receipt indicates the Rounding Adj due to allowed denominations for cash, in a sales transaction In Store Return Transaction - US Tax This receipt is for an in-store return transaction with the original receipt Id. Return Receipt with Rounding Adjustment This receipt indicates the Rounding Adj due to allowed denominations for cash, in a return transaction Post void of sale transaction This receipt indicates post void of a sale transaction which was paid using cash Post void of a return transaction This receipt indicates post void of a return transaction which was refunded using cash. In Store Sale Transaction - VAT (Info) Tax This receipt is printed when an in-store purchase is made with Informational Tax (VAT) settings. In Store Return Transaction - VAT (Info) Tax This receipt is for an in-store return transaction with the original receipt Id with Informational Tax (VAT) settings. Sale receipt with persistent VAT tax code These receipts indicate the VAT tax codes that are applied and persist in order tax records. Sale receipt - EMV limited data This receipt indicates the EMV limited data when an electronicpayment is made via chip entry mode. Sale receipt - All EMV data This receipt indicates all the EMV data when an electronic payment is made via chip entry mode. Gift card activation This receipt indicates an in-store sale of a gift card ( activation). Gift card cash-out This receipt indicates an in-store sale bought with a gift card having a gift card cash out. Gift Card Balance Check This receipt prints the details of a balance present on a particular gift card Gift Card Reload This receipt prints the details of a gift card reloaded with the remaining balance. Exchange Order This receipt indicates an in-store exchange of an item with details of the original order with a cash payout. Exchange Tender This receipt indicates an exchange tender between customer checks and cash. Omni Order in Store This receipt indicates an in-store purchase along with order details for shipping to home and pickup in store. BOPIS Sell more This receipt indicates an in-store purchase during buy online pickup in store. Exchange Tender Receipt with Rounding Adjustment This receipt indicates the Rounding Adj due to allowed denominations for Cash, in an Exchange Tender transaction Omni Sale - Canada Taxation This sample receipt indicates an omni sale from a Canadian store, an in-store purchase and ship to address to other Canada provinces In Store Sale - Suspend Transaction This is a sample receipt printed when a transaction is suspended during an in-Store sale. Manager Functions - Pay In Transaction This sample receipt indicates a pay in transaction. Manager Functions - Payout Transaction This sample receipt indicates a pay out transaction. Manager Functions - Till Pickup This sample receipt indicates a till pick up transaction. Manager Functions - Till Loan This sample receipt indicates a till loan transaction. Manager Functions - No Sale This sample receipt indicates a No Sale Manager function. Manaager Functions - Till Audit (Drawer Count) This sample receipt indicates a Till Audit function Gift Receipt - In Store Sale Transaction This sample receipt is for the Gift Receipt for an Instore Sale Transaction. In Store Transaction - France Ticket This ticket receipt is printed when an in-store purchase is made in a France country - enabled environment. In Store Transaction - France Invoice This invoice receipt is printed when an in-store purchase is made in a France country - enabled environment. Reprint France Ticket - In Store Transaction This sample reprint receipt is for France in-store transaction for a ticket. Reprint France Invoice - In Store Transaction This sample reprint receipt is for France in-store transaction for an invoice. Receipt Localization - French This is a sample receipt printed in French based on user's locale. Receipt Localization - Spanish This is a sample receipt printed in Spanish based on user's locale. Italy-Receipt This is a sample receipt printed in Registratore Telematico fiscal printer for Italy Italy- Z report This is a sample Z report printed in Registratore Telematico fiscal printer for Italy Germany Receipt-with QR Code This is a sample receipt printed for a fiscalized order in Germany. Germany Receipt- TSE Offline This is a sample receipt printed for orders in Germany that didn't get fiscalized due to the fiscal device being offline. Germany Receipt Localization -German This is a sample receipt printed in German based on user's locale. Austria Receipt-with QR Code (Localized receipt) This is a sample receipt printed for a fiscalized order in Austria. Austria Receipt- EFSTA Offline (Localized receipt) This is a sample receipt printed for orders in Austria that didn't get fiscalized due to the fiscal device being offline. Puerto Rico This is a sample receipt printed for a fiscalized order in Puerto Rico. Puerto Rico This is a sample receipt printed for orders in Puerto Rico that didn't get fiscalized due to the softek being offline. Send Sale This is a sample receipt printed for a send sale order. Note: A duplicate receipt is printed, where the additional copy of the receipt is printed for store use.