# SCI Limits and Guidelines

**Permalink:** sci-limits-and-guidelines-2
**Content Length:** 7,263 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:37:09.356658

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Supply Chain Intelligence&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Supply Chain Intelligence - Supply Chain Planning ››SCI Limits and Guidelines SCI Limits and Guidelines&nbsp; &nbsp; Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning includes Operational Supply Chain Intelligence. Use of Operational SCI is limited to the Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning Suite and any directly related systems. The following use restrictions on reporting apply as pre-defined configurations: Limit Description Limit Report Time Limits Maximum execution time for batch/scheduled reports 30 Minutes Maximum execution time for interactive reports 5 minutes Rows Retrieval Maximum number of retrieved rows per query 100,000 &nbsp; Content retention Number of report output versions 1 Number of report history occurrences 5 Content Removal &nbsp; Retention period for report output 7 days Retention period for report history 7 days Email Message Maximum Email message size limit allowed 10 MB Additionally, the following general system guidelines are recommended to maintain optimal system performance: a)Data Set Query recommendations:&nbsp; To achieve a more concise and focused report, it's essential to limit the results in your dataset. Consider implementing filters to limit the rows returned, as this leads to local processing of information. SCI datasets should not be refreshed more often than every 15 minutes. Implement strategies to limit the number of hits to the database to fetch the information/results. Schedule reports to run in Save mode to distribute saved versions and reduce database load. Utilize proper grouping and summaries to ensure report results align closely with dataset results. Avoid using the 'ALL' package for single package use cases to prevent excessive load and potential errors. b)&nbsp;No more than 25 reports running concurrently. c) CSV table extracts should not be used. d)&nbsp;&nbsp;Raw Data Movement Limitation: Extraction of large amounts of raw data, for example, CSV or Excel files in Cognos and then moving a large volume of rows, is not&nbsp;supported in Manhattan Active® SCI. This immense movement of data impacts the stability of Cognos and creates performance issues for conventional reporting use cases. Manhattan Active® SCI is intended only for analytics through the production of human-readable reports and dashboards. e) Real-Time&nbsp;Mission-Critical reports are not supported:&nbsp;Reports are generated using a read-replica of the production database.&nbsp; While the replication is typically near real-time, there may be occasional replication delays.&nbsp; Reports will always reflect what is currently in the read-replica, but because of occasional delays, may not reflect the current production data and therefore may not be appropriate for reports requiring real-time production data.&nbsp; Some examples of mission-critical reports are: Shipping labels and documents such as packing lists and bills of lading Trucks expecting an SCI report before transporting orders Floor-level employees waiting for SCI reports before beginning their operations Receiving a worksheet to initiate the receiving process Printing of packing lists and dispatching of orders (shipments stopping due to the dependency on these reports) Assembly line operations&nbsp;halted due to the dependency on the&nbsp;SCI report&nbsp; f)&nbsp;My Content Folder Limitation: Cognos Analytics offers two folders, namely, Team Content and My Content, for developing reports and dashboards. During a Cognos upgrade, the transfer of content and ownership of items saved in the My Content folder is not supported.&nbsp;&nbsp;The usage of My Content is not supported in general. It must not be used as a reliable location to save any Cognos object.&nbsp;Items in the My Content Folder must be moved to the Team Content folder. g) Access Control:&nbsp;Admin-level access to the Cognos system is exclusively limited to Manhattan Services and Operations teams to manage Active SCI deployments. Customers are prohibited from accessing the system with admin privileges. h)&nbsp;Scheduling:&nbsp;Consider the following recommendations for scheduling Stagger schedules to prevent simultaneous triggers that can overload systems. Ensure that the execution of multiple schedules does not exceed the set concurrency limits. Monitor system performance to adjust schedules accordingly and maintain optimal workflow. Implement alerts to notify of potential concurrency limit breaches or scheduling conflicts. Regularly review and update scheduling parameters to align with system capabilities and requirements. i)&nbsp;Standardizing report generation times Aligning MySQL and Cognos limits to 90 minutes The database has a maximum SQL execution time of 90 minutes to ensure efficient query execution. After which the DB process is usually terminated. Note: For more information on the SCI guidelines for report developers, refer to this page.