# SCI Release 23.3

**Permalink:** sci-release-23.3
**Content Length:** 13,369 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:47:20.807346

---

Home&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Release Notes&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;2023 ››SCI Release 23.3 Supply Chain Intelligence Release Notes 23.3 &nbsp; Release Date: 7/7/2023 Dashboard UpdatesReport UpdatesFramework UpdatesOther Updates Dashboard Updates Operational SCI for v23.3&nbsp;introduces Returns Dashboard and Store Pickups Dashboard (shown below), and includes&nbsp;updates made to the POS dashboard. Refer to the table for more information. &nbsp; Dashboard Name New/Existing/ Dashboard section Description&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; Returns Dashboard New This dashboard helps you analyze the order returns through Call Center, Self-Serve, and other channels. It contains a)&nbsp;Return Order Metrics&nbsp;and b)&nbsp;Return Order Line Metrics&nbsp;tabs. These tabs present data on the trend of these orders, exchanges, refunds, return reasons, and more. Store Pickups Dashboard New This dashboard captures data on store pickups for both curbside and Buy Online and Pickup in Store (BOPIS) options. It offers an array of metrics and visualizations to display and assist with the data analysis for average wait time, the number of units picked up via BOPIS and curbside, the reasons for fulfillment cancellations, the cost, and additional information. Point of Sale Dashboard Point of Sale Overview Tab (Existing) Metric Changes Renamed the DPT metric to&nbsp;Average Order Value&nbsp;and UPT to&nbsp;Units Per Transaction Visualization Changes Added the new&nbsp;Customer Capture&nbsp;chart in the lower-left corner of the dashboard. This&nbsp;metric intends to determine if a customer is registered or not. There can be several store orders that might or might not have registered customers against them. This metric can help companies to analyze this data and take measures to convert unregistered customers to registered ones. Rearranged the&nbsp;visualizations in this tab and modified the visualization type for one of them. Performance and Sales Tab (New) Visualizations This dashboard now includes the&nbsp;Performance and Sales&nbsp;tab. It comprises the&nbsp;Associate Performance&nbsp;and&nbsp;Omni and Store Sales&nbsp;visualizations. Associate performance:&nbsp;This table visualization captures the Store Associate ID, Team Associate Name, and Gross Sales. Using this table, store managers can identify the top and bottom performers. It enables them to design strategies to reward and arrange training programs where applicable.&nbsp; Omni Sales and&nbsp;Store Sales:&nbsp;Using this visualization, store managers can compare and analyze the revenue earned from the store and Omni sales, InStore Sales, Ship To Store, and Pick Up At Store Sales. Omni sales include revenues earned using Ship To Address and email delivery methods. The x-axis in this stacked column chart represents the store, and the y-axis depicts the value of sales using these methods. &nbsp; Report Updates The following table summarizes modifications to the existing SCI reports for Manhattan Active&reg; Omni. For more information, you can access the links provided in each row: &nbsp; Report Category Report Name New/Existing Description&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Inventory Management Monitoring Report Settlement Job is Not Running for X Hours Existing &nbsp; The following modifications are made to this report: Replaced Inventory Batch Job Execution query subject with Payment Batch Job Execution Included additional filters to reflect the appropriate job name Store Order Fulfillment Reports Stuck Orders Existing Updated the column labels of the Stuck Orders report of the Store Order Fulfillment header to reflect the Fulfillment-level data. Point of Sale Backoffice Reports Sales Summary / Store Summary Existing Corrected the calculations for the Amount Per Transaction and Units Per Translation for these two reports to reflect the correct average value.&nbsp; &nbsp; Framework Updates The following table summarizes the table additions to the existing packages. You can find more information by accessing the link provided for each package: &nbsp; Package Name New/Existing Description Point of Sale&nbsp; Existing Added BO Edge Event Summary as a stand-alone entity to the POS package Order Management&nbsp; Existing Added Order Milestone Entity to the Order table and Order Milestone for Parent Order to the Parent Order table &nbsp; Other Updates Operational SCI for v23.3 includes the following&nbsp;Manhattan Active SCI Status&nbsp;dashboard. For other updates, refer to the table following this image. Enhancement Description Manhattan Active SCI Status Manhattan Active SCI Status tracks and monitors the usage of SCI across Manhattan Active&reg; products. It intends to continuously monitor and inform users to take proactive actions for&nbsp;interactive and scheduled reports, performance and configuration-related issues, and long-running reports that signal a potential risk of crashing and avoid downtime. It also includes drill-down reports for some of the metrics to provide more information. JSON Store Columns Added the JSON Store column to packages having Order and Order Line tables.&nbsp;This inclusion enables reporting for JSON fields used in these tables.