# SCI Release 21.2

**Permalink:** sci-release-21.2
**Content Length:** 6,346 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:47:30.642735

---

Home&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Release Notes&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;2021 ››SCI Release 21.2 Supply Chain Intelligence&nbsp;21.2 Release Notes Last updated: &nbsp;04/05/2021 Dashboard ChangesReport ChangesFramework ChangesAdditional Feature This section highlights new features or functionalities introduced in the SCI 21.2 release. For more information, you can refer to the links that are provided in each section. Dashboard Changes There are no new dashboards introduced in the SCI 21.2 release and no enhancements made to the existing ones. Report Changes The following table summarizes the changes made to the Reports section: Report Category Report Name New/Existing Report Description Store Inventory Management - Receiving Reports Not Received Package Summary New This report provides a count of the packages that are&nbsp;missing, expected, and late. Missing Packages New This report identifies a list of lost packages. Expected Packages New This report provides a list of packages that are in-transit. Received Packages New This report provides a list of packages that are received. Received Package Details New This report provides information about a specific package. It includes a filter section, a &#39;header&#39; level that provides key package-level information, and a detail section that provides information about each item within the package. Order Management Fraud Orders By Day Report New This report provides records where the Payment Response Status = Fraud and the Hold Type = Payment Fraud. It includes a traditional report layout, as well as a combination of line and bar chart, so that customers can quickly assess the number of fraud orders and the impacted dollar value of those orders. &nbsp; Framework Changes The following table summarizes the enhancements made to the Framework section: Framework Name New/Existing Package Description Organization Location Framework New Added the&nbsp;Organization Location&nbsp;package, which allows user to fetch the list of locations, that do not have carrier facility accounts or any information at the location level Store Inventory Management - Receiving Framework New Added the Storage Inventory Management Receiving package, which enables you to track details&nbsp;of inventories that are expected, received, delayed, and&nbsp;missing Order Management Framework Existing Added Order Line Process Info and Release Variance tables to the Order Management Framework Order Fulfillment Framework Existing Added Order Line Process Info table to the Order Fulfillment Framework Additional Feature The SCI 21.2 release includes the introduction of&nbsp;barcode font types of Barcode128 and Barcode39 in reports.