# Manhattan Supply Chain Intelligence Release Notes 24.3

**Permalink:** sci_24.3_releasenotes
**Content Length:** 8,515 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:47:15.874171

---

Home&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Release Notes&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;2024 ››Manhattan Supply Chain Intelligence Release Notes 24.3 Manhattan Supply Chain Intelligence Release Notes 24.3 &nbsp; Report UpdatesFramework UpdatesIBM Cognos Analytics 11.2.4 Adoption Report Updates This release introduces multiple updates to the Order Management and Point of Sale reports. The following table summarizes these updates. Report Name Existing/Removed Description Manhattan Active SCI Status Existing Reports in 24Hrs&nbsp;section is now enhanced with numerical metrics for&nbsp;Interactive&nbsp;and&nbsp;Scheduled&nbsp;reports to capture the number of reports users execute in the SCI instance. Max Runtime Minutes Per Hour&nbsp;section is now enhanced with metrics that provide the highest execution time in minutes&nbsp;per&nbsp;hour for a day and the time interval when it is at its maximum.&nbsp;You can access the drill-down or detailed report for&nbsp;Max Runtime Mins Per Hour&nbsp;to view the report with two columns - Report Types and Run time (Mins). Message Failure Report Removed The&nbsp;Message Failure Report under the Utility section has been removed from the application.&nbsp; This report information is available as part of&nbsp;Message Failure - Common Utility Report. Gift Card Order Line Report Exisiting The report has been renamed to Gift Card Order Line report from Gift Order Line report. &nbsp; Framework Updates The following table summarizes updates made to the existing Omni packages: Framework New/Existing Description Order Management Exisiting Added&nbsp;the&nbsp;Bounceback Coupon Detail,&nbsp;Offer Number Tracker and&nbsp;Offer Nbr Reserved Tracker tables to the Order Management package. Note: Nbr denotes Number Point of Sale Exisiting Added&nbsp;the&nbsp;Bounceback Coupon Detail,&nbsp;Offer Number Tracker and&nbsp;Offer Nbr Reserved Tracker tables to the Point of Sale package Note: Nbr denotes Number Store New Added&nbsp;Store Inventory Management - RFID Entity&nbsp;as a stand-alone entity to the Store package. The Store Count,&nbsp;Unit Inventory,&nbsp;Unit Inventory Execution and&nbsp;Unit Inventory Status table are added to the new entity. &nbsp; IBM Cognos Analytics 11.2.4 Adoption Supply Chain Intelligence has adopted the&nbsp;11.2.4 version of Cognos Analytics. This section provides the high-level feature changes to the 11.2.4 version.&nbsp; For more information, refer to the Cognos Analytics release documentation. Note:&nbsp;We are adopting this long-term supported release of Cognos after extensive testing. UI changes Major modifications for the 11.2.4 version include a new appearance or look and feel, alterations to item placements, and renaming option names in the UI. Cognos Analytics adopts IBM&#39;s open-source design system, Carbon, to enhance digital product design. This adoption ensures an improved user experience across IBM products.&nbsp;The following image depicts the 11.2.4 UI and emphasizes the alterations: &nbsp; The Open menu (Hamburger button) includes the features to create a new report, dashboard, exploration, and more. This menu also contains the Content option to access Team Content, Data Packages, and more. The Manage option under the same menu allows you to perform admin-level tasks. Using the Profile and Settings option under the Personal menu, you can manage your general and personal preferences in Cognos Analytics UI. You can also view the list of capabilities your role carries under this option. The Quick Launch section on the home page provides you with the option to upload data, prepare data, and create reports, dashboards, explorations, and stories. Dashboards The changes to this section include narrative insights on dashboard visualization, establishing zoom levels, zoom bar for horizontal scrolling in a visualization, handling missing values in a line visualization, and more. Reporting This version introduces Image Service to render maps and visualization into PDFs and Excel formats, conversion of groups of queries and analyzes, and more. &nbsp;