# Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Intelligence Release Notes for Omni 24.4

**Permalink:** sci_24.4_release_notes-for-omni
**Content Length:** 11,269 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:47:14.878568

---

Home&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Release Notes&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;2024 ››Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Intelligence Release Notes for Omni 24.4 Manhattan Active&reg; Supply Chain Intelligence Release Notes for Omni 24.4 New ReportsAgent Performance ReportMissed SLA By Interaction Type ReportFramework UpdatesDashboard UpdatesOthers New Reports In the 24.4&nbsp;release, Supply Chain Intelligence has introduced two&nbsp;new reports under Customer Engagement: Agent Performance Report&nbsp;and Missed SLA by Interaction Type Reports. Agent Performance Report The new report allows managers&nbsp;to evaluate the performance of the agent.&nbsp;It typically includes metrics such as response time, resolution rate, and handle time across different interaction types like chat, SMS, and email.&nbsp; Missed SLA By Interaction Type Report This report is designed to&nbsp;analyze metrics by agent interaction type.&nbsp;It aggregates data across various communication channels such as chat, SMS, and email, providing a comprehensive&nbsp;view of agent effectiveness with respect to Missed SLA and Total Request handled. Framework Updates The following table summarizes updates made to the existing Omni packages: Framework New/Existing Description Order Management Existing Added Attribute Name column to the Order Line Attributes table. Next Up Transaction as a standalone entity. Order Reason For Order Line Additional table to the Order Line Additional entity. Customer Engagement Existing Added standalone entities. Chat Bot Hourly Interaction SLA Interaction Queue Intent Hourly Added tables to Cases Entity Interaction - Cases Agent Interaction Detail for Interactions Users for Interaction Details Customer Engagement Chat for Interaction Details Order Fulfillment Existing Added Goal Agg Event Mapping&nbsp;as a standalone&nbsp;entity. Goal and&nbsp;Full Daily Location table&nbsp;to the Goal Agg Event Mapping entity Full Daily Location Audit table&nbsp;to the Fulfillment entity. Note: Agg denotes&nbsp;Aggregate. All Packages Existing Added JSON_Store column to the Item entity across all packages Attribute Name column to the Order Line Attributes table across all packages. Fulfillment Line Item Translations table&nbsp;to the Fulfillment Line Item entity for all Packages. Added&nbsp;Customer Loyalty Number column&nbsp;to the Customer entity across all packages. Utility Existing Added Behavior Change and&nbsp;Behavior Change Override as&nbsp;standalone entities. Dashboard Updates Dashboard New/Existing Description Returns Dashboard Existing The Return By Reason column on the dashboard will now display descriptions for returned orders in the table. The description is populated using the new Order Reason For Order Line Additional&nbsp;table. Return by Product Class label has now been corrected to Return By Product Class. The Summary row in the Return By Reason and Return By Product Class is removed. Store Summary Existing Fixed the issue where the user selecting the&nbsp;change reporting period&nbsp;would result in an error.&nbsp; Point Of Sales Existing Fixed an issue where the Average Order Value&nbsp;and&nbsp;Units Per Transaction&nbsp;were incorrectly calculated by summation. The system was incorrectly&nbsp;summarizing instead of performing an average summarization. Fixed customer user interface label typo. Others The French-Canada language is now supported for all-based reports, dashboards, and framework packages. Fixed the issue of the Start Date and End Date user interface not displaying in the translated&nbsp;language. &nbsp; &nbsp;