# SCP Configurations

**Permalink:** scp-configurations
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning/Process &amp; Configuration Guides/Strategy/Configuration/SCP Configurations
**Content Length:** 36,286 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:09:28.822451

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning››Process & Configuration Guides››Strategy/Configuration ››SCP Configurations SCP Configurations Previous Next IO ConfigurationsDF Configurations IO Configurations Config ID Description Config (Default) Values multi.item.transfer.optimization.enabled Used in OFM to optimize transfers for multi-item support. False retail.segment.priority Retail Segment’s Priority used while Segment Transfers and Segment Plan Update. The lower the value, the higher the priority. 2 engine.use.manual.min.order.point The manual minimum will replace the order point only if it is higher than the calculated order point. False le.avg.weeks.beyond.one.year For calculation of demand beyond 52 weeks, use the average demand in the last "n" weeks as specified by the parameter below for lower echelon SKUs. 52 engine.soq.buyingMultiple.preventRoundDown. zero.enabled" Enable engine.soq.buyingMultiple.preventRoundDown.zero=true to prevent the ROQ from being rounded down to zero due to the buying multiple constraint. When this setting is activated, the replenishment system will automatically round the ROQ up to the nearest buying multiple if it is less than one full buying multiple, ensuring a valid order quantity is always placed. False engine.use.plannedDemand.in.safetyStock This property controls whether planned demand is included in the safety stock calculations. False numberOfSpansForPentupDemand This parameter defines the historical period that replenishment will use to accumulate pent-up demand when generating order projections. 0 prpp.enabled False planogram.driven.modelSet.replenishment Specifies whether SKU replenishment is based on Model Set Planogram policies. False order.to.build.minimum This configuration parameter controls the Item Supplier Minimum. When set to 'True', it allows building up to the Item Supplier Minimum, even if the build fails for one of the items due to the extra days exceeding 999 days of supply. True treat.onOrder.as.OnHand This parameter is used to treat the current "On Order" inventory as if it were "On-Hand" when calculating order projections. It essentially includes the On Order stock in the same way as On-Hand inventory in the projection process. False engine.ordersplit.line.buildup. extraDays.incremental This property determines whether safety stock is included in the Adjusted Order calculation for stockout scenarios. 100 trend.dampening.factor 1 engine.bullWhipFactor The Bullwhip Factor is a calculation of the change between projected orders and actual demand. It is a ratio of the actual forecast error variance over the sum of lower-echelon forecast error variance. 1 engine.slow.mover.sd.pct.threshold This property is used to set an upper limit on the Forecast standard deviation of slow movers. The value of this parameter is interpreted as a percentage with a valid range of 50 to 1000. 50 to 100 engine.ordersplit.line.breakEqualDays.to BuildToMax False njpp.enabled Use this parameter to enable or disable the Nightjob Preprocessor (NJPP). When set to 'True', it displays the status (scheduled/running) of the Nightjob Preprocessor job in the UI and also activates the Nightjob Preprocessor tab in the Global Settings section of the UI. False determine.svc.risk.based.on.eff.lt This setting is used only in calendar policy configurations to calculate the Review Cycle (RC) during the Service Check Delay Days calculation. When set to 'True', it applies the calendar policy settings for calculating the Review Cycle during the Service Check Delay Days calculation. False max.threshold.vendor.shipping.date.exception If the difference between the Current Lead Time, Next Lead Time, or Quoted Lead Time (before considering the Shipping Day patterns/exceptions configured in the Calendar Policy associated with the Source Business Entity) and the Current Lead Time, Next Lead Time, or Quoted Lead Time (after considering the Shipping Day patterns/exceptions) exceeds this threshold, the system will disregard the Shipping Day patterns/exceptions in the Calendar Policy for calculating the Lead Time. A warning message will also be logged. 0 engine.alloc.constrainedLESKUs.freeze.soq To automatically freeze the SOQ of an SKU with a constrained supply situation at the upper echelon during nightly processing. True numberOfSpansForPentupDemand Determines how far back in history replenishment would go to accumulate the pent-up demand for generating order projection. 0 engine.adjust.safetyStock.for.stckout The property determines whether the safety stock should be used in the Adjusted Order for stock-out calculations. False engine.slow.mover.sd.pct.threshold This property is used to set an upper limit on the forecast standard deviation of slow movers. The value of this parameter is interpreted as a percentage with a valid range from 50 to 1000. 250 he.avg.weeks.beyond.one.year For calculating demand beyond 52 weeks, use the average demand from the last 'n' weeks, as specified by the parameter for upper-echelon SKUs. 4 ensure.receipt.by.modelSetDate Configuration for ensuring availability for model set minimum one exposure period in advance. False use.edd.in.order.projections Used for calculating current On Order receipt dates for Order Projections using PO EDD. False optimize.bracket.build.to.max The property determines whether to optimize the bracket build to max by adding varying days of supply. False stop.bracket.build.down.below.order.point The property determines whether to optimize the bracket by building to the maximum, adding varying days of supply. False btb.for.orders.with.only.backorder.skus True turnoff.replenishment.using.SkuDeactivate UntilDate Used to set if the SKU has a future deactivate until date, then it will be considered as inactive. Note: If a SKU has a future deactivate until date and a deactivate on date configured before, the  system will consider only the period between the deactivate on date and deactivate until date as deactivated. False engine.first.period.smoothing.coefficient 1.0D persist.rollup.demand.daily.at.ue If this property is set to 'True' as part of NJ, the seasonal forecast and forecast period unit for the UE SKU will be updated. If set to 'False' as part of PR, the values will be updated accordingly. False engine.dmnd.chan.reserved.extra.days Used to specify how many days of supply of the demand channel should be accounted for as “exposure period demand” when the higher echelon is constrained. Setting this parameter to false/true deactivates/activates the constrained supply allocation for demand channel SKU functionality respectively. False slow.mover.annual.forecast.lower.bound The annual forecast lower bound is used for slow mover logic in order projections. 16 slow.mover.demand.frequency.upper.bound Demand frequency upper bound used for slow mover logic to calculate the ROQ in order of projections. 52 order.projection.override.enabled This parameter is used to enable order projection override. Valid Values: True – Enable order projection override False – Disable order projection override False engine.use.calc.roq.ip.eq.op False varianceProjectionMethod The variance projection method determines how the deseasonalized variance is used to compute the projected variance for future periods. A value of 1, would result in the projected variance for a week being proportional to the seasonal index. A value of 2 would result in the projected variance being proportional to the square of the seasonal index. 1 engine.use.lt.variance.std.calc A value of true can be used for backward compatibility with the old safety stock computation. The old safety stock computation resulted in very high safety stock values when a sharp peak was introduced in the exposure period because of planned demand or seasonal profiles. False engine.dmnd.accumulates.for.shelf.life.max Configuration to enable shelf life max not to accumulate demand during periods when SKU is projected to be out of stock. True e.skus.std.dev.calc.option This configuration is used for the new calculations for the Upper Echelon standard deviation. When this configuration is set to ‘1’, the following configuration parameters will no longer be displayed on the Enterprise, BE and SKU edit screens, as they will not be used in the new calculations for the UE standard deviation. Maximum Bullwhip Factor Maximum Bullwhip Factor Change% Maximum STD Change % The bullwhip related parameters will be hidden from the UI as the bullwhip factors will no longer be used in the UE computations. 1 ue.skus.min.effective.seas.index This configuration is used to define the minimum seasonal index threshold to skip the period for the upper echelon SKU. 0.2 demandRandomization.enabled If this value is set to "True," Replenishment will apply the randomization process to reduce wave-like patterns in the aggregate upper echelon order projections for SKUs identified as intermittent by Demand Forecasting. 0 control.lower.bound.for.effective ManualMax.for.shelflife This property is added to control the lower bound cap for the calculated effective manual max units for a SKU when using the Target Confidence configuration along with Shelf Life Maximum. If it’s set to true, then the effective manual max units will be limited to be at least equal to the expected demand forecast over the shelf life days configured for the SKU, although there is a chance the actual demand ends up being much less than forecast for SKUs having high demand variance. In other words, the system will make sure that the total days of supply (IP + SOQ) of the SKUs does not exceed the configured shelf life max days for them. If this property is set to false, there won’t be any lower bound cap applied to the effective manual max units and it can go down to zero. In this case, the system will be more conservative for SKUs having high standard deviation and target confidence values and suggest lesser order quantities to avoid spoilages when the actual demand ends up being much less than the forecast of the SKUs. That is, it is possible to have the total days of supply (IP + SOQ) of the SKUs limited to values lower than their shelf life max days. False engine.ofm.simulation.freightCost.enabled This parameter is used to enable ‘Freight Cost’ button in Order Costing container in the Edit Relationship screen. False calculate.pickupdate.if.daysforpickupis0 When this feature is enabled, the pickup date will always be calculated, even if the Days for Pickup is set to 0. (If the LT componentization flag is disabled and the configuration parameter 'calculate.pickupdate.if.daysforpickupis0' is set to 0, the Pickup Date will not be calculated.) False max.threshold.vendor.business.date.exception If the difference between the Next Review Date (without considering the Business Day patterns/exceptions configured in the Calendar Policy associated with the Source Business Entity) and the Next Review Date (after considering the Business Day patterns/exceptions in the Calendar Policy associated with the Source Business Entity) exceeds this threshold, the system will disregard the Business Day patterns/exceptions in the Calendar Policy for calculating the Next Review Date, and a warning message will be logged. 0 include.plannedDemand.for.EOQ.and.EOC.calculation If this property is set to true, planned demand will be factored into the Economic Order Quantity (EOQ) and Economic Order Cycle (EOC) calculations. As a result, if there is upcoming planned demand, the EOQ may increase. However, when the EOQ is converted from units to days for EOC calculation, the EOC will decrease as the planned demand start date approaches within the EOC timeframe. This approach helps prevent purchasing planned demand too early for SKUs with long EOCs. If this property is set to false, planned demand will not be considered in the EOQ and EOC calculations. In this case, the EOC will remain stable and unaffected by any future planned demand. False opa.in.delay.calculations True DF Configurations Config ID Descriptions Config (Default) Values Data Type Entity Name ExpSmoothIntermittencyEnabled : false Used to control whether exponential smoothing for intermittency is enabled or disabled for all forecast policies. False Boolean Forecast Policy ExpSmoothIntermittencyQMult : 3 This defines the threshold for updating the Q value when no hit has occurred during the exponential smoothing process for intermittency. 3 Numeric ExpSmoothIntermittencyPhi : 0.2 The smoothing factor used in the calculation of Q in exponential smoothing for intermittency. 0.2 Numeric QIntermittencyThreshold : 0.05 Minimum Value for Demand Frequency Value 0.05 Numeric QIntermittencyHitsThreshold : 17 Maximum Value for Demand Frequency Hits 17 Integer QPrecision : 0.1 Decimal precision of Demand Frequency value 0.1 Numeric QInitialPhi Initial value for “Q Local Phi” when activating a Forecast Entity during Forecast Update. 0.15 Numeric QMaximumPhi Upper Bound for “Q Local Phi” and is used during forecast updates. 0.5 Numeric QDampeningThreshold Threshold for Demand Frequency Dampening Factor 2 Integer QDampeningFactor Dampening Factor for Demand Frequency 0.25 Numeric QMultipleStdDev : 1.5 1.5 QKappaWeighting Weightage for Kappa for Demand Frequency 0.5 Numeric InitialIATLimit: 0 DisableDynamicQWhenSeasonal : false NegativeAnnualGrowthThreshold : -1D Lower cap for Annual Growth -1D Integer PositiveAnnualGrowthThreshold 1.0D Upper cap for Annual Growth 1.0D Integer NumberOfForecastHistoryPeriods The minimum periods of history required for an FE to generate a lift within Lift Modeling 13 26 Integer SeasonalProfileSmoothingThreshold : 0.6 Seasonal Profile Policy SeasonalProfDemandSmoothCoeff: "0.166667:0.666667:0.166667 ExcludeSeasonalProfileForNewSkus Exclude New SKU's from Seasonal Profile Generation Process. True Boolean ExcludeSeasonalProfileForNewSkus : true (MAPA) excludeSeasonalProfileForNewSkus  :true True useSeasonalityForDemandEstimation Use seasonality in the demand estimation calculation for the Promo Workbench and Event Lift. False enableYearlyDeTrendingInSeasonalProfileGen Detrend history before seasonal profile generation. True True or False promoCalculationType Demand Cleansing Policy controlDataUpperPercentile Exclude periods with demand higher than this value multiplied by Standard Deviation from Demand Cleansing Process. 0.95 Numeric controlDataLowerPercentile : 0.05 Exclude periods with Demand lower than this value multiplied by Standard Deviation from Demand Cleansing Process. 0.05 Numeric useSystemControlDataPercentiles : false Determines if Demand Cleansing will use system control data percentiles in addition to the user-supplied data percentiles. False Boolean seasonalProfDemandSmoothCoeff Determines if Demand Cleansing will use system control data percentiles in addition to the user supplied data percentiles. False Boolean