# Screen Layout

**Permalink:** screen-layout
**Content Length:** 7,290 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:17.211936

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Common Functions ››Screen Layout Screen Layout &nbsp; &nbsp; Screen LayoutMenuNavigation Bar&nbsp;Filter PaneList PanePagination The allocation dashboard has components that appear across the user interface screens to enhance the user experience and consists of&nbsp;&nbsp;Menu,&nbsp;Navigation Bar,&nbsp;Filter Pane, and&nbsp;List Pane. &nbsp; Menu The system menu enables you to move from one page to another user interface page. It displays the list of User interface&nbsp;screens are, Allocation, Inventory, configurations, Administrator tools, Dashboards, and Allocation Configuration Guides. &nbsp; &nbsp; Navigation Bar&nbsp; The navigation bar consists the name of the screen,&nbsp;help icon&nbsp;and a&nbsp;refresh button. From the navigation bar, click Help&nbsp;&#39;?&#39; to access the product documentation from&nbsp;the application. The help documentation describes the&nbsp; application features, functionality, and procedures.&nbsp; You can click Refresh to refresh&nbsp;the data at the UI page. Filter Pane The Filter Pane enables you to search for data with different methods. Note: By default, the filter panel is&nbsp;displayed at the time of login. You&nbsp;can collapse the filter panel by clicking Filter. View&nbsp;Filters&nbsp;for more information.&nbsp; &nbsp; List Pane The List Pane is a list of records based on your&nbsp;search criteria. This list of records are&nbsp;displayed on&nbsp;the list pane.&nbsp;Each record&#39;s&nbsp;details are&nbsp;displayed in the form of cards. You can use the &#39;Swipe Out&#39;&nbsp; icon to view the action buttons for each card. &nbsp; Note: The action buttons available are based on the authorization set for the user. &nbsp; Pagination The pagination feature enables you to toggle between the pages to view the list of records.&nbsp;Pagination is available on the list pane of the user interface. Note: By default, 25 records will be listed per page. You can set the number of records to be displayed on a page as, 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 50, 75, and upto100.&nbsp; &nbsp;