# Search Items

**Permalink:** searchitems
**Content Length:** 15,724 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:35:17.050544

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Customer Engagement&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Item Search ››Search Items Item Search Item SearchSearching an ItemViewing the Item ListViewing Item DetailsAdding Item to Shopping CartSelecting a&nbsp;Delivery MethodSelecting a Shipping MethodLocating a Store Searching an Item The Item Search page enables you to search and view the details of items that the customer wishes to purchase. You can search for an item by using any of the item attributes such as item name, style, color, and size.&nbsp; To search an item, perform the following steps: In the left quick access pane of the Customer Engagement page, click Item Search. The Item Search page is displayed.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; In the left pane of the&nbsp;Item Search&nbsp;page, enter the item description to search for an item. To narrow down the search for a specific item, enter the details of the item such as product class, style, color, and size,&nbsp;and then click Search to display the Item List. The Item List panel lists all the items based on the search criteria entered. Select each item to view the details of the corresponding item in the Item Details&nbsp;panel. By default, the details of the first item are displayed. However, you can override this by selecting another item. In the Item Details section, select the quantity, gift card value, if any, color, size, delivery option, and shipping method&nbsp;for the selected item, and then&nbsp;add item&nbsp;to the shopping cart. Viewing the Item List The item list is displayed based on the search criteria used to search for an item. Note: The item list will not be displayed for the following&nbsp;items: Not available in the inventory. Deactivated in a commerce view. Undefined as part of the commerce view. To view&nbsp;the item list, perform the following steps:&nbsp; On the Item Search page, search an item. The Item List panel lists all the items based on the search criteria entered. Select Sort By&nbsp;as &quot;Availability&quot;&nbsp;or &quot;Price&quot; to sort the items based on the availability and price respectively.&nbsp; Click the&nbsp;up and down arrow icons next to Sort By field&nbsp;to sort the items in descending and ascending&nbsp;orders respectively. Select each item to view the details of the corresponding item in the&nbsp;Item Details&nbsp;panel. By default, the details of the first item are displayed. However, you can override this by selecting another item. Viewing Item Details In the Item Details screen, you can view the product details such as the brief description of the item, product image, price, size, color, and availability.&nbsp;You can also view the delivery options and the shipping methods for the item.. On the&nbsp;Item Search&nbsp;page, search an item. Select an item from the Item List panel that&nbsp;is displayed based on the search criteria.&nbsp;By default, the details of the first item are displayed. However, you can override this by selecting another item. View the details of the items such as&nbsp;the image of the item,&nbsp;description, price, quantity, color, size, delivery options, and shipping methods. If the customer profile has a &#39;Preferred Store Pickup Location&#39; configured, then that store location is visible in the Item details as well. Note:&nbsp;The values displayed in the&nbsp;Color&nbsp;and&nbsp;Size&nbsp;lists&nbsp;are directly linked to the&nbsp;availability&nbsp;of the&nbsp;item&nbsp;in the inventory. Adding Item to Shopping Cart The Add Item feature enables&nbsp;you to add one or multiple items to the shopping cart and proceed to create the order. To add items to the shopping cart, perform the following steps: On the&nbsp;Item Search&nbsp;page, search and select&nbsp;an item.&nbsp; In the Item Details section, select the quantity, color and size of the item.&nbsp; Select the&nbsp;delivery option&nbsp;and&nbsp;shipping method.&nbsp; Click&nbsp;Add to Cart&nbsp;to add the item to the shopping cart.&nbsp;After you add all the items to the shopping cart, click the&nbsp; icon to view the list of items added to the cart.&nbsp;&nbsp; Click&nbsp;Checkout&nbsp;to create an order with the selected items. The Customer Detail pop-up is displayed. On the&nbsp;Customer Details&nbsp;pop-up, you can search for a registered customer by entering the name, email or phone number. To create an order&nbsp;on the fly&nbsp;for a new customer, click the&nbsp;&nbsp;icon next to the&nbsp;Create Order for New Customer&nbsp;field.&nbsp; Enter the customer information, and then click&nbsp;Done. This displays the Call Center page where you can create&nbsp;the order. Alternatively, on the Item Search page, click&nbsp;Add & Checkout&nbsp;to add the selected item to the shopping cart and&nbsp;create an order on the fly. The Customer Detail pop-up is displayed. Follow steps 5 through 6 to create the order.&nbsp; Selecting a&nbsp;Delivery Method Delivery options enable you to choose the delivery method for the selected item. To select&nbsp;the delivery method for the selected item, perform the following steps: On the Item Search page, search and select an item.&nbsp; In the&nbsp;Delivery Options section, select the delivery method for the item from the following available options: Ship to address: The selected item is shipped to the address provided by the customer. Pick up at&nbsp;store: The selected item is picked up by the customer from the selected/preferred store. Click Store Selector&nbsp;to open the Store Locator. Select the store that has the item in stock. Ship to store: Ship the selected item to a near by store to be picked up by the customer. Click Store Selector&nbsp;to open the Store Locator, and then select the store.&nbsp; Selecting a Shipping Method In the Shipping Method section, you can select the shipping method&nbsp;for the selected item. The shipping rates for each item is configured by the system based on different attributes, such as weight, volume, and value of the item. To select the shipping method for the selected item, perform the following steps: On the Item Search page, search and select an item.&nbsp;&nbsp; After you select the delivery option for the selected item as &ldquo;Ship to Address&rdquo; or Ship to Store&rdquo;, the shipping options are&nbsp;enabled. Select the necessary shipping option. Locating a Store The Store Locator enables you to select a store from which the item can be picked up by the customer. You can locate a store by entering the radius of area, zip code, city name, and state as the search criteria. To select a store from which the item can be picked up by the customer, perform the following steps: On the Item Search page, search and select an item.&nbsp; In the Delivery Options section, when you choose the delivery option for the selected item as Pick up at&nbsp;store&nbsp;and Ship to store, the corresponding Store&nbsp;Selector&nbsp;link is enabled and allows you to select the store from where the customer can pick up the item.&nbsp; Click Store Selector&nbsp;to display the&nbsp;Locate Stores for page. The red and green indicators indicate the stores based on the location provided by the customer. When you select a store, the corresponding store number is highlighted on the map in the left panel. Red&nbsp;&nbsp;indicates that either the&nbsp;Pick up at&nbsp;store&nbsp;or&nbsp;Ship to store&nbsp;or both delivery options are not available for that store. Green&nbsp;&nbsp; indicates that both the&nbsp;Pick up at&nbsp;store&nbsp;and&nbsp;Ship to store&nbsp;delivery options are available at that store.