# Search Items

**Permalink:** search-items
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Order Management/UI Help/Customer Service/Search Items
**Content Length:** 27,996 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:59:45.221215

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Order Management››UI Help››Customer Service ››Search Items Search Items To Perform a Basic SearchUse Advanced SearchView the Item List View Item DetailsDisplay Sizes and Colors as Drop-downSet Color and Size SequenceView Available Delivery OptionsStore LocatorSelect a Shipping MethodAdd Items to Shopping Cart to Create an Order The Item Search page is useful when customers call to inquire about specific items. You can also create orders and process an entire purchase from this page. Search for items by using one or a combination of the unique identifiers, such as: item name brand name description product attributes (style, color, size) You can also view and select available promotions and offers, method of shipping, and delivery options for items. To Perform a Basic Search On the Customer Service Home page, in the Find an Item text box, enter the item name, item ID, style, or color of an item and search for the item. The Item Search page is displayed. Use Advanced Search When the customers do not know the exact description or name of the item, an advanced search provides more options to search for a specific item. On the Item Search page, enter the necessary terms (keyword, product class, style, color, size) and click Search. Note: The Language field will be displayed only if the item attribute localization is enabled on the call center config UI. By default, the Language field displays the user's primary locale as selected locale. The items that match the search criteria are displayed. Note: The keyword is searched in item attributes such as item ID, size, color, description, and short description and displays results that contain at least one of the words used for searching. For example, gift card will return results that contain gift or card. Note : In the Master Data User UI, if a user has only the "Local ID" configured and no "Available User Local" defined, then during the order creation flow, when hovering over the item language option, a tooltip message saying "Language selection is not allowed" will be displayed. Similarly, in the order edit flow, the order locale will be used as the default item language, and hovering over the item language option will also show the "Language selection is not allowed" tooltip. View the Item List The item list is displayed based on the search criteria entered to search an item. The items of the same style are grouped as one tile. To view the item list, perform the following steps: On the Customer Service Home page, in the Find an Item text box, enter the item name, item ID, style, or color of an item and search for the item. The Item Search page is displayed. The Item List panel lists all the items based on the search criteria entered. Select Sort By as "Availability" or "Price" to sort the items based on the availability and price respectively. Click the up and down arrow icons next to Sort By field to sort the items in descending and ascending orders respectively. Select each item to view the details of the corresponding item in the Item Details panel. By default, the details of the first item are displayed. However, you can override this by selecting another item. Note: The item list will not be displayed for the following items: Not available in the inventory. Deactivated in a commerce view. Undefined as part of the commerce view. Items belonging to different styles are listed as separate tiles, with the following rules: If the item does not have a style defined, the item is shown in a separate tile. If more than one item of the same style is available, only one item is displayed. View Item Details Details of an item, such as image, description, price, style, size, and color are displayed in this section. When user want to Field Description See the price Price The online price is displayed for an item. Select quantity of item Quantity Displays the total available units based on the availability of the item inventory.  If the item is not available, Item is currently not available message is displayed. Select the size Size The size available for the selected item is displayed in this field. This field can appear as a row view(each size in box) or as a drop-down list. Row view called as swatch is a default view. However, it can be changed to drop-down by selecting the Display As Dropdown attribute in the Call Center Config page. Select the color Color The colors available for the selected item is displayed in this field. This field can appear as a row view(each color in a box) or as a drop-down list. Row view called as swatch is a default view. However, it can be changed to drop-down by selecting the Display As Dropdown attribute in the Call Center Config page. Note: If an item is available for a particular size and color combo, the corresponding size and color combo will appear in black. View Item Details for a Kit To view the items in a kit, the agent can select the kit icon, which appears in the left-hand, bottom corner of the item image; the icon includes the number of components that make up the kit. Clicking on the icon opens the Kit Detail Popup, which provides details about the items within the kit, including SKU ID, description, item image and the quantity required to make a kit. This information is very helpful when helping a customer differentiate between kits while placing an order. Difference between Swatch and Drop-down Format Item Availability Swatch or Row Format Drop-down Format Item not available The unavailable size and color combo will appear as grey dotted box The unavailable size and color combo will appear in grey Item not sold Item that is not sold for a size and color combo will be represented in grey dotted strikethrough box Item that is not sold for a size and color combo will be represented in grey strikethrough font Only future inventory available for an item Item that has only future inventory will be represented in grey dotted box. Hover over the grey dotted box to view the next available date for the inventory. Item that has only future inventory will be represented in grey font. Hover over the future inventory to view the next available date for the inventory. Display Sizes and Colors as Drop-down The option to display size and color of an item as drop-down is defined in the call center configuration UI. To configure the drop-down attribute for size and color option, perform the following steps: Navigate to Manage Call Center Configuration > Call Center Configuration. In the Call Center Configurations page, select the Default Config and click View. In the Item Options tab, click Add to add an attribute. For example, color attribute. In the Item Options pop-up, enter the attribute details. Select the Display As Dropdown check box to display the color options in a drop-down list. Click Save to save the attribute. Set Color and Size Sequence The sequence of color and size is defined in the Item specification page: Go to Menu > Master Data > Manage Items > Items. Enter all or one of the search criteria attributes, such as Item ID, Description, Style, Color, Size and Brand. Click Find. Optionally, you can scroll and select the item name and click Select. Select the item and click View. Under Details tab, enter the sequence of size and color in the Size Sort Sequence and Color Sort Sequence fields. Click Save. View Promotions and Discounts View the promotions and discounts associated with the item. Click the link to view the Promotion details. The link displayed is based on the promotions. For example: Offer Details  displays for Buy one get another free (BOGO) promotion. View Items displays for Buy one and get another free (BXGY) promotion. View Available Delivery Options Delivery options enable you to choose the delivery method for the selected item. In the Item Search page, search and select an item. In the Delivery Options section, choose the appropriate method from the available options: Ship to address -  The selected item is shipped to the address provided by the customer. The associated charges is also displayed in brackets. Pick Up at Store - Based on the Delivery Method Sub Type, the selected item is picked up by the customer from the selected/preferred store or it is delivered at the store curbside. Select an appropriate Delivery Method Sub Type from the following options: Curbside In Store Click Select to select the store that has the item in stock. See the topic Store Locator for more information. Ship to Store - Ship the selected item to a nearby store to be picked up by the customer. Click Select to select the store that has the item in stock. See the topic Store Locator for more information. Notes: If a delivery option is not applicable for an item, then that option is grayed out. Shipping methods is a customized feature. See Shipping Methods for more information. Store Locator The Store Locator allows you to choose a store for a Pickup at store or Ship to store mode of delivery of items. Radius of area, zip code, city name, and state entered are the search criteria fields to locate a store. The item details such as description, SKU, style, color, size, price and availability status are displayed in the store locator pop-up. Note: By default the sorting of stores is by distance based on the zip code, city name and state. Note: The Available to Commerce view should be in active mode for Pickup at store and Ship to Store to retrieve the stores on store locator. The map indicates list of the stores with the delivery options available for the item selected. Red  indicates that either all or one of the Pickup at store/ Ship to store delivery options is not available from that store. Green  indicates that both Pickup at store and Ship to store delivery options are available at that store. Ship to Store button enabled/disabled based on the inventory availability picture, which is calculated based on the availability view (Network/Location level) defined in the call center configuration UI. The store list displays the details of the stores and enables you to select the correct store of your choice. Also, on selecting a store on the list, the corresponding store number is highlighted on the map in the left panel. Select a Shipping Method In the Shipping Method section, you can select the shipping method for the selected item. The shipping rates for each item is configured by the system based on different attributes, such as weight, volume, and value of the item. To select the shipping method for the selected item, perform the following steps: On the Item Search page, search and select an item. After you select the delivery option for the selected item, the shipping methods are enabled along with the estimated delivery date. Select the necessary shipping method. Shipping methods can be filtered using the country code and postal code fields. The country drop down is populated from the countries configured in the Country Configuration UI, where "Shipping Restricted" is set to false. By entering the country and postal code and clicking the arrow button, the list of eligible shipping methods will be filtered to those that ship to that location. To re-set the shipping methods, the user can click the 'X'. Note: The default shipping method is displayed in the ascending order of price. If price is not associated with the shipping methods, then they will be displayed in ascending number of Sequence Number. This Sequence number attribute is not available in the Shipping method configuration UI but is available as a field in the Shipping method API. If the Sequence number is also null, the shipping methods are listed in random order. Return Shipping Method Selection in Call Center UI When creating a Return Order (RO) in the Call Center UI, the system retrieves all applicable return shipping methods based on the configuration and item eligibility. The selection logic is as follows: Multiple Return Shipping Methods Available: If more than one return shipping method is configured and valid for the items in the return, the system lists all applicable options. However, it automatically selects the first method from the list as the default. Note: A default return shipping method cannot be explicitly configured when multiple valid return methods are available. Single Return Shipping Method Available: If only one return shipping method is applicable, it is used as the default without prompting for selection. No Valid Return Shipping Methods Available: In cases where no return-specific shipping methods are valid for the selected items, the system defaults to using the shipping method from the first order line of the original customer order (CO). Add Items to Shopping Cart to Create an Order Once the items are located, you can initiate a purchase directly from results shown in the item list. On the Item Search page, search and select an item. In the Item Details section, select the quantity, color and size of the item. Select the delivery option and shipping method. Click Add to Cart to add the item to the shopping cart. After you add all the items to the shopping cart, click the  icon to view the list of items added to the cart. Click Checkout to create an order with the selected items. The Customer Detail pop-up is displayed. On the Customer Details pop-up, you can search for a registered customer by entering the name, email or phone number. To create an order on the fly for a new customer, click the  icon next to the Create Order for New Customer field. Enter the customer information, and then click Done. This displays the Call Center page where you can create the order. Alternatively, on the Item Search page, click Add & Checkout to add the selected item to the shopping cart and create an order on the fly. The Customer Detail pop-up is displayed. Follow steps 6 through 8 to create the order.