# Search Orders

**Permalink:** search-orders
**Content Length:** 14,760 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:34:42.456066

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Customer Service ››Search Orders Search Orders Search by Order NumberSearch by Name, Email, and PhoneView All Transactions for a CustomerView Items in the Order Locating orders&nbsp;is essential for&nbsp;customer service operations, and the Order Management module provides different ways to easily&nbsp;accomplish this task. Search by Order Number On the Customer Service&nbsp;Home page, in the Find an Order&nbsp;text box, enter the order number and search for an order. The corresponding order details are displayed in the Call Center page. See View Order details&nbsp;for more information. Search by Name, Email, and Phone On the Customer Service Home page, in the&nbsp;Find a Customer&nbsp;text box, enter the name,&nbsp;phone number, or e-mail of the customer and search for a customer.&nbsp; Click View More Search Options to use the first name, last name, email, and phone number of the customer to perform the search.&nbsp; Based on the search criteria, the customer list is displayed.&nbsp; Select a customer from the customer list to display the Customer Transactions page. You can view the details of all the transactions made by the customer. View All Transactions for a Customer It is sometimes necessary to see all the transactions made by a customer across organizations. The cross organization orders are visible only when the Call Center Config &#39;View Orders Across Organization&#39; attribute is enabled. Refer to Cross Organization&nbsp;Configuration for details.&nbsp; The Customer Transaction page enables you to search for customer orders or return orders and provide&nbsp;complete information about an order or return order. In the Customer Transactions page, the Transactions panel displays the list of transactions for the selected customer. You can further sort the Transaction List&nbsp;based on the type of purchase and date.&nbsp; Type of purchase All -&nbsp;Select this option to show both online and point of sale&nbsp;orders. Order - Refers to online purchases. Select this option to show orders that were placed online. Returns -&nbsp;&nbsp;Select this option to display the return orders. Exchanges -&nbsp;Select this option to display exchange orders. Store Sale -&nbsp;Refers to store purchases.&nbsp;Select this option to show&nbsp;orders that were placed at stores. Date To sort the transaction list based on date, click theicon in the&nbsp;Transaction List&nbsp;drop-down list, The following options are displayed: Show all Last 7 days Last 30 days Last 60 days Last year Custom Range Based on the selection made in the previous steps, the list of transactions is displayed. Select a transaction to view the respective order and shipment details in the&nbsp;Items&nbsp;and Transaction Details&nbsp;sections. By default, the details of the first order in the transaction list is displayed. Note:&nbsp;Only when the Cross Organization Order Visibility feature is enabled, the Customer Transaction list will display the Org ID column displaying the organization ID of the specific order. In the Transaction Details section, click the Order Status link to view the complete status of the order.&nbsp;Click the&nbsp;&nbsp;icon to edit, return, hold and cancel the orders. The&nbsp;Shipments&nbsp;section displays the shipment status of the order.&nbsp; View Items in the Order There can be multiple items in an order. You can search for the items in the&nbsp;order based on the following scenarios: By Order Number If the customer has the order number, search the order by order number. On the Customer Service Home page, in the&nbsp;Find an&nbsp;Order&nbsp;text box, enter the order number to search for an order. The corresponding order details are displayed in the&nbsp;Call Center&nbsp;page.&nbsp; In the Items section, you can view the details of the items associated with the order. By Customer Name If the customer does not have the order number, search the order using the customer&#39;s details such as name, email or phone number:&nbsp; On the Customer Service Home page, in the&nbsp;Find a Customer&nbsp;text box, enter the name,&nbsp;phone number, or e-mail of the customer and search for a customer.&nbsp; Based on the search criteria, the customer list is displayed.&nbsp; Select a customer from the customer list to display the Customer Transactions page. The Transaction panel lists the orders for the selected customer. Select the order number and view the item details in the Items panel. Using the Order Filter In&nbsp;the&nbsp;left quick access pane of the Home page, click&nbsp;Orders. The&nbsp;Order&nbsp;List/Order&nbsp;Line List&nbsp;page is displayed.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; The&nbsp;Order&nbsp;List and&nbsp;the&nbsp;Order&nbsp;Line List tabs are provided with a Filter Panel, which enables you to filter&nbsp;order&nbsp;and&nbsp;order&nbsp;lines based on&nbsp;the&nbsp;search criteria you enter in&nbsp;the&nbsp;filter panel. Enter&nbsp;the&nbsp;search criteria such as&nbsp;the&nbsp;order number, customer first name, customer last name, phone number, email, order status, created date from, and created date to, and so on&nbsp;to search for&nbsp;the&nbsp;order, and perform&nbsp;the&nbsp;following actions: Click&nbsp;Apply&nbsp;to apply the search criteria entered to search for the order. Click&nbsp;Save as&nbsp;to save the filter. In the&nbsp;Save Filter&nbsp;dialog box, enter the filter name and description, and then click&nbsp;Save&nbsp;to save the filter. Click&nbsp;Clear&nbsp;to clear the search items entered. Click&nbsp;More&nbsp;to broaden the search. Select the fields from the drop-down list that you want the filter panel to contain while searching for an order. Select the order and click View Order Status to view the item details in the Items panel. Note The Created From Date in both Order List and Order Line List UIs works with logged in user time zone, and it displays the date 6 months prior to the current date. This is controlled by the orderUICreatedDateFromDefaultFilter flag set in KV store, which will be false by default for all customers. However, this can be disabled by changing this flag to true by working with the services team. The Created From Date that displays the date 6 months prior to the current date can be removed manually by clicking the &quot;x&quot; and click Apply. Using the Order Line Filter If an order has a significant number of order lines, search within the order using the Order Line Filter pop-up. The Order Line Filter is available on the Order Edit page, Customer Transaction page and the Order Status page. It is also available on the XO Status page, where it can be used to search for exchange orders, as well as returns.&nbsp; Access the Order on one of the pages that includes the filter.&nbsp;Select the icon to open the Order Line Filter pop-up. Utilize the filter options to narrow the order lines displayed.&nbsp; The Order Line Filter pop-up can be used multiple times to refine the order lines displayed.&nbsp; Note: To use the Order Line Filter, the user must have the correct grant. See the Customer Service UI Resources.&nbsp;