# Aggregated Seasonal Profile  

**Permalink:** seasonal-profile-aggregation
**Content Length:** 16,028 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:37:25.777868

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process &amp; Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Demand Forecasting ››Aggregated Seasonal Profile &nbsp;Aggregated Seasonal Profile Previous&nbsp;Next OverviewProcess FlowAggregated Seasonal Profile Editing and UsageManual Seasonal ProfileConfigurationsHow to configure a Seasonal Profile Policy?UIs and EntitiesServices Overview A seasonal profile is a predictable pattern or correction applied to forecasts to account for seasonal variations in sales forecasting. A typical seasonal profile would be generated for one item-location, whereas an aggregated seasonal profile is generated for a group of item-locations, where the sales of all item-locations are aggregated, and then the profile is generated. However, the profiles that are generated will depend on the hierarchy levels and filter conditions configured in the seasonal profile policy. An aggregated seasonal profile is created when seasonal trends are analyzed at a higher hierarchical level, such as Department for products and Region for locations. The aggregated seasonal profiles are especially useful for forecasting sales trends for Item Locations that lack sufficient historical sales data and share similar sales patterns within the hierarchy. For example, consider a department with four items: Item 1, Item 2, Item 3, and Item 4. Items 1 and 2 are sold in Location 1 of Region 1. Items 3 and 4 are sold in Location 2 of Region 2. If users choose to generate an aggregated seasonal profile at the region level, two aggregated seasonal profiles will be created: One for Region 1, based on the aggregated sales history of Items 1 and 2 in Location 1. One for Region 2, based on the aggregated sales history of Items 3 and 4 in Location 2. This method ensures more reliable forecasting, especially for item locations with limited historical sales data, by leveraging the broader sales patterns within the defined hierarchy. The feature provides robust aggregate seasonal profiling capabilities, enabling the generation and deployment of seasonal profiles across multiple levels of the item and location hierarchy through the submission of an aggregate seasonal profile policy. These are utilized by an advanced calculation engine that consolidates historical demand data to generate accurate seasonal profiles—especially beneficial when item-level data is limited or inconsistent. &nbsp;The user interface allows users to manage and fine-tune these profiles directly. Additionally, backend workflows have been enhanced to automate the generation and assignment of seasonal profiles, significantly improving the efficiency and scalability of seasonal forecasting. Process Flow The first step in generating an aggregated seasonal profile is to set up a seasonal profile policy in the system. To generate the profiles, the system follows these steps: Check the policy settings. Retrieves sales information for all item-locations specified in the item-location hierarchy or policy filter conditions. Aggregates the fetched sales data based on the selected hierarchy levels and filter conditions. It uses the aggregated sales information and policy attributes to generate the aggregated seasonal profiles. Aggregated Seasonal Profile Editing and Usage Users can manually modify the aggregated seasonal profile indices. When a modification is made, a 'Manually Changed'&nbsp;flag is set to 'Yes'&nbsp;on the modified seasonal profile. These modified indices will then be used for forecast projections if they are linked to a forecast entity. Users can choose to add the aggregated seasonal profile policy in the "Seasonal Profile Policy Association" settings of the forecast policy. In this case, forecast entities will be automatically associated with seasonal profiles if the item-location matches. Alternatively, users can manually associate a seasonal profile with any forecast entity in the Forecast UI. Manual Seasonal Profile A manual seasonal profile can be created in the Seasonal Profile UI using the Create option. This type of profile is useful when users prefer to define their own seasonal trends to forecast seasonalized sales for Item-Locations. Manual seasonal profiles can be assigned to any forecast entity in the Forecasts UI. By default, the indices of a newly created manual seasonal profile are set to 1. These values can be adjusted based on user preferences but cannot be null or negative. When indices are manually modified and saved, the system applies a normalization technique to ensure that the total sum of indices does not exceed 52. This applies to all types of seasonal profiles. Configurations How to configure a Seasonal Profile Policy? Define one or more Seasonal Profile Policies for recognizing the seasonal pattern in demand and for inserting seasonality into the forecast.&nbsp;Identify which item location the seasonality should be calculated for and which forecast the seasonality needs to be applied. Aggregating Seasonal Profile Policy {{url}}/ai-forecast/api/ai-forecast/seasonalProfilePolicy/search { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;SeasonalProfilePolicyId&quot;: &quot;SPP_Test002&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;MetricGroupId&quot;: &quot;Default-Sales&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;Description&quot;: &quot;Seasonal Profile Policy&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ItemHierarchyId&quot;: &quot;ForecastHierarchy&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;LocationHierarchyId&quot;: &quot;Primary&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;YearOneWeight&quot;: 25.0, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;YearTwoWeight&quot;: 25.0, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;YearThreeWeight&quot;: 25.0, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;YearFourWeight&quot;: 25.0, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;LocationHierarchyLevelId&quot;: &quot;Region&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ItemHierarchyLevelId&quot;: &quot;DepartmentNumber&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;GenerateSeasonalClassification&quot;: true, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;GenerateExceptions&quot;: true, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;GenerateInitialTrend&quot;: false, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;SeasonalDegreeThreshold&quot;: 0.1, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;SeasonalQuotientThreshold&quot;: 0, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;SeasonalIndexLowerBound&quot;: 0.1, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;AllowZeroIndex&quot;: false, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ComparativeErrorThreshold&quot;: 0.1, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;SeasonalQuotientFitThreshold&quot;: 0.1, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;SeasonalQuotientFitThresholdDampeningFactor&quot;: 0.85, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;CompressionSeasonalQuotientUpperBoundThreshold&quot;: 0.6, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;SeasonalProfileFilterCondition&quot;: [ &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; ], &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ExcludeIntermittent&quot;: false, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ExcludeSlowMovers&quot;: true, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ExcludeIntermittentAndSlowMovers&quot;: false, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;IntermittentVolatileThreshold&quot;: 0.6, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;RegularVolatileThreshold&quot;: 0.3, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;GroupProfile&quot;: false, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;AggregateCountPercentThreshold&quot;: 0.5, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;AggregateCountMinimum&quot;: 10, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;AggregateCountSmoothingFactor&quot;: 0.15, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;PartialYearWeeksMinimum&quot;: 1, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;UseSeasonalityForDemandEstimation&quot;: false, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ExcludeSeasonalProfileForNewSkus&quot;: false, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;EnableYearlyDeTrendingInSeasonalProfileGen&quot;: true } Forecast Policy Seasonal Profile Policy Association - Rank and associate seasonal profile policies to the forecast policy. &nbsp; UIs and Entities The UIs mentioned in this document are listed in the following table, along with information to navigate to the API documentation. &nbsp; UI Name &nbsp; Component &nbsp; Type &nbsp; Seed Data Present &nbsp; Seed Data Profile Seasonal Profile Policies Forecast Configuration No No Seasonal Profiles Forecast Transaction No No Seasonal Profile Exceptions Forecast Transaction No No &nbsp; Services Below are some of the commonly used APIs related to this functionality. Refer to the API documentation for additional details on each service. &nbsp; Service &nbsp; Component seasonalProfilePolicy/search ai-forecast seasonalProfilePolicy/triggerSeasonalProfiling/{seasonalProfilePolicyId} ai-forecast seasonalProfile/export ai-forecast seasonalProfile/search ai-forecast seasonalProfileException/export ai-forecast seasonalProfileException/search ai-forecast seasonalProfileExceptionCode/search ai-forecast seasonalProfilePolicyAssociation/search ai-forecast &nbsp; &nbsp;