# Shipping Address 

**Permalink:** shippingaddress
**Content Length:** 5,084 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:35:24.045508

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Customer Engagement&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Attributes ››Shipping Address Shipping Address In the Shipping panel, you can add a new shipping address or edit the existing address for the order. The entered shipping address is verified by the Address Verification System (AVS). On the Item Search page,&nbsp;search and select an item.&nbsp; After you&nbsp;add&nbsp;the items to the shopping cart and complete the checkout process, the&nbsp;Call Center&nbsp;page is displayed. On the&nbsp;Call Center&nbsp;page,&nbsp;click the Shipping tab. In the Delivery Options, select one of the following options: Ship to Address Pick up at&nbsp;Store Ship to Store Note: Only one shipping address can be used per order line.&nbsp; &nbsp; If you select the Delivery Option as Ship to Address: In the Add New Address section, enter the address of the customer. Note:&nbsp;An asterisk(*) indicates a required field. Make sure you enter all the required fields. If you want to use the new address as your billing address, select the&nbsp;Use as Billing Address&nbsp;check box. Click the&nbsp;Use This&nbsp;button&nbsp;to use the entered address as the shipping address for the selected item. In the Addresses Used in This Order section, update the address and shipping method for the item by using the Edit button in the respective sections.&nbsp; Enter the details in the appropriate sections, and then click Update to update the corresponding sections. In the Available Addresses section, click the&nbsp;Use This button&nbsp;to use the address in the Available Address section as the customer address for shipping the order. Click Proceed to Payment to proceed to payment details. &nbsp; If you select the Delivery option as Pick up at&nbsp;Store or Ship to Store: In the Add New Store section, click Store Selector. The Locate Stores For page is displayed. Enter the parameters to locate the store such as radial distance for locating the store, unit of distance in miles or Km, zip code, city, state, and country, and then click GO. The Store list displays the details of the stores. The details will enable you to select the store of your choice. Also, on selecting a store on the list, the corresponding store number is highlighted in the map in the left panel. In the Addresses Used in This Order section, update the address and shipping method for the item by using the Edit button in the respective sections.&nbsp; Enter the details in the appropriate sections, and then click Update to update the corresponding sections. In the Available Addresses section, click the&nbsp;Use This button&nbsp;to use the address in the Available Address section as the customer address for shipping the order. Click Proceed to Payment to proceed to payment details.