# Shipment Tracking

**Permalink:** shipment_tracking
**Content Length:** 3,313 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:34:48.786325

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Digital Self-Service ››Shipment Tracking Shipment Tracking The Shipment Tracking feature enables the customers to track a package. When a customer places an order, the order gets processed and released to the distribution centers (DC) for fulfillment. After the item is picked, packed, and is out for shipment, the customer receives an email/text. From this shipment confirmation email/text, the customer launches the DSS Shipment Tracking page to view the details of the shipment associated with the package. Refer Shipment Tracking for more information. To track a shipment, the customer needs to perform the&nbsp;following steps: Click the &#39;Track Package&#39; link provided in the shipment confirmation email/text or via the link provided in an e-commerce site to access the Shipment Tracking UI. In the Shipment Tracking UI, you can view the item details with the estimated delivery date, tracking status displaying the shipment details such as the time, carrier service associated with the shipment, city, state and postal code. The Opt-In feature allows customers to&nbsp;opt in&nbsp;to receive text messages about the order&#39;s updates. The Opt-In UI is available on the Shipment Tracking page, if the&nbsp;Enable Opt In Text Messages in Self Service Pages&nbsp;check box is selected on the&nbsp;Details tab&nbsp;of the&nbsp;Digital Self Service Configuration UI.&nbsp; Before signing up, the customer can optionally hover over the hyperlink next to the Opt-in message prompt, to&nbsp;view opt-in details like terms and conditions, privacy agreement. The content of this section will be set up by the retailer.&nbsp; To opt-in, the customer needs to take the&nbsp;following steps: Choose the country code for their phone number from the drop-down. Enter their phone number in the text box. Click on the &#39;Sign Up&#39; button. If a customer has already opted into receiving text notifications about their order, they will see an option to stop receiving messages.&nbsp;To opt-out, the customer should click on the &#39;Stop Receiving Messages&#39; hyperlink.&nbsp; &nbsp;