# Order integration with Shopify

**Permalink:** shopify-order-integration
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Order Management/Process & Configuration Guides/Order Processing/Shopify Integration/Order Integration with Shopify
**Content Length:** 119,516 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:58:15.635621

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Order Management››Process & Configuration Guides››Order Processing››Shopify Integration ››Order integration with Shopify How to Integrate with Shopify Order Save Previous I Next OverviewPre-requisitsCreate OrdersShopify Order NameShipping Methods and Shipping CostsTaxesPromotions and DiscountsCreate PaymentsShopify Webhooks and APIsOrder Create webhookTransaction Create webhookQuery to Get More Information on Payment TranslationConfigurationShopify ConfigurationTax ConfigurationMaster Data and AssumptionsShopify Connectivity ConfigurationError Handling and TroubleshootingTroubleshoot Out of the Box TranslationFailed MessagesRelated Articles Overview The out of the box integration with Shopify covers order and initial payment creation in Manhattan Active® Omni for orders that are created on Shopify e-commerce platform. These e-commerce orders are then translated into Manhattan Active® Omni order and payment objects and the system processes with the normal order lifecycle. The out-of-the-box integration supports: Ship to address orders with different shipping methods and shipping costs. Note that due to the way Shopify orders are structured, all orders have only one fulfillment group. Orders with taxes Orders with promotions and discounts Orders paid with credit cards See create orders for more information about the order lifecycle. Pre-requisits Make sure that the selling channel "Shopify" exists. Create Orders When an order is created on Shopify, it is then published to Manhattan Active Omni using a shopify webhook. It is then translated using out of the box logic using a freemarker template and can be extended using the synchronous extension point, Marketplace:Marketplace:UserExit:EditShopifyOrderResponse before being sent to the order component for order creation. Some important fields of the out of the box translation are described below. Manhattan Active® Omni field Shopify Field Comments Order ID Order name This is the order name visible by the customer and defined by a prefix, counter and suffix in the Shopify config. See Shopify Order name for more information. Alternate order ID Order id This is the unique order ID of the Shopify order. It is required for any additional API calls to Shopify to get more information on the order and is used during payment creation. line ID line.id This is the unique order line ID of the Shopify order. This order line ID is unique across orders and for that reason will be a long string of characters. Item ID line.sku Manhattan Active Omni Item ID is mapped to Shopify product variant SKU. Each implementation should validate that items exist in both systems. Delivery Method All orders in the out of the box translation are ship to address orders. SellingChannelId "Shopify" for all orders using the out of the box translation. OrderType "Ecom Order" for all orders using the out of the box translation. DocType "Customer Order" for all orders using the out of the box translation. If any of these values need to be changed for an implementation, use Marketplace:Marketplace:UserExit:EditShopifyOrderResponse synchronous extension point to update the order before it is created. Shopify Order Name As the out of the box integration is mapping the Shopify order name to the Manhattan Active Omni order ID, it is important to not include special URL characters in the prefix/suffix of the order name configuration. URL based special characters are #, +, ?, /, etc.. For example, the below makes # the prefix of the order name on Shopify. Such an order should not be created in Manhattan Active Omni. Orders with URL based special characters in the order ID can be created in Manhattan Active Omni. However, other processes later in the order lifecycle might fail (like displaying the order audit for example). Shipping Methods and Shipping Costs During e-commerce checkout, a customer will choose a shipping method for their ship to address orders. When the Manhattan Active Omni order is created, the order line shipping method is mapped to the Shopify order shipping line code. They should be the same on both applications. Manhattan Active Omni does not validate if the shipping method exists when creating the order. Manhattan Active Omni also uses the Shopify order shipping line to create the order charge detail that is related to shipping charges. Taxes When getting taxes from Shopify orders, the out of the box integration mapping tax details are as follows: Manhattan Active Omni field Shopify Field Comments TaxAmount taxline.price TaxRate taxline.rate TaxTypeId taxline.title The Shopify Taxline.title contains a string of information that is separated and translated in multiple Manhattan Active Omni tax details fields. An example of the title is "State-Sales and Use Tax" In this case: TaxTypeId= State-Sales and Use Tax JurisdictionTypeId = State TaxIdentifier1 = Sales and Use Tax JurisdictionTypeId TaxIdentifier1 Promotions and Discounts Each implementation will need to make use of a single promotion engine across selling channels. It is expected that when a mod type is triggered in Manhattan Active Omni to re-evaluate charges, the promotion engine would return the same values as for a similar Shopify Order. Shopify's promotions are translated to Manhattan Active Omni order (line) charge details following the below logic: Manhattan Active Omni field Shopify Field Comments ChargeReferenceId promotion code This is the promotion code that a user has to input for manual promotions on Shopify. TaxCode discount_codes.type "shipping" for shipping charges and "Discount" for promotions. ChargeTypeId Fixed value to "promotion" for Shopify discounts. RequestedAmount amount The discount amount is a positive number on Shopify orders. It is transformed into a negative number in Manhattan Active Omni charge details. DiscountOnId target_type Possible Shopify values are "SHIPPING_LINE" or "LINE_ITEM". They translate respectively to DiscountOnId "Charges" or "ItemPrice" ChargeDisplayName promotion code This is the promotion code that a user has to input for manual promotions on Shopify. Create Payments When an order is created on Shopify, its associated payment record is then published to Manhattan Active Omni using a Shopify webhook. It is then translated using out of the box logic using a freemarker template and can be extended using the synchronous extension point Marketplace:Marketplace:UserExit:EditShopifyPaymentResponse before being sent to the payment component for payment creation. Orders can be imported with an authorization transaction or already settled. If an order is prepaid, only the settlement transaction is published by Shopify. The main difference with order creation is that during payment record creation, additional calls are made by the out of the box translation logic to get additional information on the payment like the billing address. Because Shopify orders and payments are two different webhooks, it is possible that they will arrive and be processed out of order. To manage this situation, additional logic is added on order save and payment save to bypass the validation that the order needs to exist when the payment is created and to update the order payment status with the payment information when the payment ends up being processed. Process flow if the order is created first Process flow if the payment is created first Some important fields of the out of the box translation are described below. Manhattan Active Omni field Shopify Field Comments Order ID Order name This is the order name visible by the customer and defined by a prefix, counter and suffix in the Shopify config. See Shopify Order name for more information. Alternate order ID Order id This is the unique order ID of the Shopify order. It is required for any additional API calls to Shopify to get more information on the order and is used during payment creation. PaymentMethod.PaymentMethodID Receipt.Payment_Method & Receipt. Charges.Payment_Method this is the payment method ID used to identify what card was used in both systems. It is used for follow-on transactions. PaymentMethod.AccountDisplayNumber PaymentDetails.Credit_Card_Number This is the payment information displayed in the customer service. Only contains the last 4 digits of the card used. PaymentMethod.CardType.CardTypeID Credit_Card_Company Pleaes note that MAO has some configured card types like Visa, Mastercard etc so please check and accordingly pass and those values should also be configured in MAO payment configs. PaymentMethod.PaymentType.PaymentTypeID "Credit Card" for all payments using the out of the box translation PaymentMethod.GatewayID "ShopifyPayments" for all payments using the out of the box translation PaymentMethod.PaymentTransaction.PaymentTransactionID Payment_ID This is the transaction ID provided by the webhook. PaymentMethod.PaymentTransaction.RequestID ID This is Shopify primary id for the webhook. PaymentMethod.PaymentTransaction.TransactionType.PaymentTransactionTypeID derived from the "Kind" Shopify field Authorization, settlement, and refunds are supported by the out of the box translation, PaymentMethod.PaymentTransaction.TransactionExpiryDate transaction expiry date Expiry date saved on the payment transaction. If any of these values need to be changed for an implementation, use Marketplace:Marketplace:UserExit:EditShopifyPaymentResponse synchronous extension point to update the order before it is created. Shopify Webhooks and APIs Order Create webhook When an order is confirmed on the Shopify e-commerce website, a webhook is published and is pushed to a GCP queue to notify Manhattan Active® Omni that an order needs to be saved. By listening to the "Order Create" webhook, any new order is sent to the Manhattan Active® Omni marketplace component for translation. Once the order is translated from a Shopify format to a Manhattan Active® Omni format, save order is called to create it in the order component. Transaction Create webhook The "Transaction create" webhook is used in multiple cases: It is used when a payment is first created and contains the information of the authorization transaction. It is used when a payment is settled and contains the information of the settlement transaction. Based on the content of the webhook, different translation logic is called to either create a payment method or add a transaction to an existing payment method. See Using Shopify as a payment gateway for more information on settlement transactions. Query to Get More Information on Payment Translation To get more information on the payment, the Admin Graph QL Shopify API is called with the below query. { order(id: "gid://shopify/Order/<orderID>") { name email phone billingAddress { ... on MailingAddress { address1 address2 city country firstName lastName zip province countryCodeV2 provinceCode } } } } Shopify API responds with the order name and the billing address, and is used to populate these fields in the payment header. { "data": { "order": { "name": "<ordername>", "email": "customer email", "phone": "customer phone", "billingAddress": { "address1": "<customer address1>", "address2": null, "city": "<customer address city>", "country": "<customer address countyr name>", "firstName": "<customer first name>", "lastName": "<customer last name>", "zip": "<customer address postal code>", "province": "<customer address state name>", "countryCodeV2": "<customer address country code>", "provinceCode": "<customer address state code>" } } } } Configuration Shopify Configuration See Shopify order name for more information on how to configure the order ID for orders created in Shopify. Tax Configuration If using minimum tax mode, the tax comparison mode should be "tax code" and not "Jurisdiction". See Tax comparaison strategy for more details. Master Data and Assumptions This out of the box integration requires a few assumptions related to master data and configuration listed below: Manhattan Active® Omni item ID and Shopify SKU need to be the same. Manhattan Active® Omni Shipping method and Shopify "code" on the shipping line need to be the same. Prices in both systems should align for items and for any additional charges (like shipping charges). Customers should be synced between systems and share their customer ids A single promotion engine and tax engine should be used by both systems. Shopify Connectivity Configuration See the configuration page for more information on connecting a Shopify store and Manhattan Active Omni organization. Error Handling and Troubleshooting Troubleshoot Out of the Box Translation An API is available to invoke the out-of-the-box translation logic using the content of a Shopify webhook as an input. POST {{url}}/marketplace/api/shopify/fieldMapping It has two inputs: The webhookFunction - can be "Order" or "Payment" The webhookDocument - the actual content of the webhook coming from Shopify The response of the API will contain the translated order or payment. Example of input for translation API{ "webhookFunction": "Order", "webhookDocument": { "id": 5852431581464, "admin_graphql_api_id": "gid:\/\/shopify\/Order\/5852431581464", "app_id": 580111, "browser_ip": "2601:c2:187f:27b0:e484:237:27a2:a0ec", "buyer_accepts_marketing": false, "cancel_reason": null, "cancelled_at": null, "cart_token": "Z2NwLXVzLWVhc3QxOjAxSFhKN1NXM1pDQzc5VkhNVFRKMDhCRkM1", "checkout_id": 37605188632856, "checkout_token": "de945b1af638f50b448ddf3aeb286248", "client_details": { "accept_language": "en-US", "browser_height": null, "browser_ip": "2601:c2:187f:27b0:e484:237:27a2:a0ec", "browser_width": null, "session_hash": null, "user_agent": "Mozilla\/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_15_7) AppleWebKit\/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome\/124.0.0.0 Safari\/537.36" }, "closed_at": null, "company": null, "confirmation_number": "5PLHK8JWV", "confirmed": true, "contact_email": "contact@mail.com", "created_at": "2024-05-10T17:52:00-04:00", "currency": "USD", "current_subtotal_price": "36.00", "current_subtotal_price_set": { "shop_money": { "amount": "36.00", "currency_code": "USD" }, "presentment_money": { "amount": "36.00", "currency_code": "USD" } }, "current_total_additional_fees_set": null, "current_total_discounts": "8.90", "current_total_discounts_set": { "shop_money": { "amount": "8.90", "currency_code": "USD" }, "presentment_money": { "amount": "8.90", "currency_code": "USD" } }, "current_total_duties_set": null, "current_total_price": "39.22", "current_total_price_set": { "shop_money": { "amount": "39.22", "currency_code": "USD" }, "presentment_money": { "amount": "39.22", "currency_code": "USD" } }, "current_total_tax": "3.22", "current_total_tax_set": { "shop_money": { "amount": "3.22", "currency_code": "USD" }, "presentment_money": { "amount": "3.22", "currency_code": "USD" } }, "customer_locale": "en-US", "device_id": null, "discount_codes": [ { "code": "10%OFALLLINE", "amount": "4.00", "type": "percentage" }, { "code": "FREESHIP", "amount": "4.90", "type": "shipping" } ], "email": "contact@mail.com", "estimated_taxes": false, "financial_status": "authorized", "fulfillment_status": null, "landing_site": "\/", "landing_site_ref": null, "location_id": null, "merchant_of_record_app_id": null, "name": "COSTESTS1013", "note": null, "note_attributes": [], "number": 13, "order_number": 1013, "order_status_url": "https:\/\/maodev.myshopify.com\/86641082648\/orders\/8cd6518f7116aaccef616a1bb6e68470\/authenticate?key=c694cf6c9dd1fd04cf82ae22b03474c1", "original_total_additional_fees_set": null, "original_total_duties_set": null, "payment_gateway_names": [ "shopify_payments" ], "phone": null, "po_number": null, "presentment_currency": "USD", "processed_at": "2024-05-10T17:51:56-04:00", "reference": "d5d45e431426147fa19bab97f651a0d8", "referring_site": "", "source_identifier": "d5d45e431426147fa19bab97f651a0d8", "source_name": "web", "source_url": null, "subtotal_price": "36.00", "subtotal_price_set": { "shop_money": { "amount": "36.00", "currency_code": "USD" }, "presentment_money": { "amount": "36.00", "currency_code": "USD" } }, "tags": "", "tax_exempt": false, "tax_lines": [ { "price": "1.44", "rate": 0.04, "title": "Georgia State Tax", "price_set": { "shop_money": { "amount": "1.44", "currency_code": "USD" }, "presentment_money": { "amount": "1.44", "currency_code": "USD" } }, "channel_liable": false }, { "price": "1.08", "rate": 0.03, "title": "Fulton County Tax", "price_set": { "shop_money": { "amount": "1.08", "currency_code": "USD" }, "presentment_money": { "amount": "1.08", "currency_code": "USD" } }, "channel_liable": false }, { "price": "0.55", "rate": 0.015, "title": "Atlanta City Tax", "price_set": { "shop_money": { "amount": "0.55", "currency_code": "USD" }, "presentment_money": { "amount": "0.55", "currency_code": "USD" } }, "channel_liable": false }, { "price": "0.15", "rate": 0.004, "title": "Atlanta Tsplost Tl", "price_set": { "shop_money": { "amount": "0.15", "currency_code": "USD" }, "presentment_money": { "amount": "0.15", "currency_code": "USD" } }, "channel_liable": false } ], "taxes_included": false, "test": true, "token": "8cd6518f7116aaccef616a1bb6e68470", "total_discounts": "8.90", "total_discounts_set": { "shop_money": { "amount": "8.90", "currency_code": "USD" }, "presentment_money": { "amount": "8.90", "currency_code": "USD" } }, "total_line_items_price": "40.00", "total_line_items_price_set": { "shop_money": { "amount": "40.00", "currency_code": "USD" }, "presentment_money": { "amount": "40.00", "currency_code": "USD" } }, "total_outstanding": "0.00", "total_price": "39.22", "total_price_set": { "shop_money": { "amount": "39.22", "currency_code": "USD" }, "presentment_money": { "amount": "39.22", "currency_code": "USD" } }, "total_shipping_price_set": { "shop_money": { "amount": "4.90", "currency_code": "USD" }, "presentment_money": { "amount": "4.90", "currency_code": "USD" } }, "total_tax": "3.22", "total_tax_set": { "shop_money": { "amount": "3.22", "currency_code": "USD" }, "presentment_money": { "amount": "3.22", "currency_code": "USD" } }, "total_tip_received": "0.00", "total_weight": 0, "updated_at": "2024-05-10T17:52:01-04:00", "user_id": null, "billing_address": { "first_name": "first name", "address1": "address line 1", "phone": null, "city": "Atlanta", "zip": "30316", "province": "Georgia", "country": "United States", "last_name": "last name", "address2": "address line 2", "company": null, "latitude": null, "longitude": null, "name": "first name Last name", "country_code": "US", "province_code": "GA" }, "customer": { "id": 8047349498136, "email": "contact@mail.com", "created_at": "2024-05-09T18:27:39-04:00", "updated_at": "2024-05-10T17:52:01-04:00", "first_name": "First name", "last_name": "Last name", "state": "disabled", "note": null, "verified_email": true, "multipass_identifier": null, "tax_exempt": false, "phone": null, "email_marketing_consent": { "state": "not_subscribed", "opt_in_level": "single_opt_in", "consent_updated_at": null }, "sms_marketing_consent": null, "tags": "", "currency": "USD", "tax_exemptions": [], "admin_graphql_api_id": "gid:\/\/shopify\/Customer\/8047349498136", "default_address": { "id": 10098448072984, "customer_id": 8047349498136, "first_name": "First name", "last_name": "Last name", "company": null, "address1": "address line 1", "address2": "address line 2", "city": "Atlanta", "province": "Georgia", "country": "United States", "zip": "30316", "phone": null, "name": "first name Last name", "province_code": "GA", "country_code": "US", "country_name": "United States", "default": true } }, "discount_applications": [ { "target_type": "line_item", "type": "discount_code", "value": "10.0", "value_type": "percentage", "allocation_method": "each", "target_selection": "entitled", "code": "10%OFALLLINE" }, { "target_type": "shipping_line", "type": "discount_code", "value": "100.0", "value_type": "percentage", "allocation_method": "each", "target_selection": "all", "code": "FREESHIP" } ], "fulfillments": [], "line_items": [ { "id": 14775461511448, "admin_graphql_api_id": "gid:\/\/shopify\/LineItem\/14775461511448", "attributed_staffs": [], "current_quantity": 1, "fulfillable_quantity": 1, "fulfillment_service": "manual", "fulfillment_status": null, "gift_card": false, "grams": 0, "name": "19691 - L \/ White", "pre_tax_price": "9.00", "pre_tax_price_set": { "shop_money": { "amount": "9.00", "currency_code": "USD" }, "presentment_money": { "amount": "9.00", "currency_code": "USD" } }, "price": "10.00", "price_set": { "shop_money": { "amount": "10.00", "currency_code": "USD" }, "presentment_money": { "amount": "10.00", "currency_code": "USD" } }, "product_exists": true, "product_id": 9063082787096, "properties": [], "quantity": 1, "requires_shipping": true, "sku": "", "taxable": true, "title": "19691", "total_discount": "0.00", "total_discount_set": { "shop_money": { "amount": "0.00", "currency_code": "USD" }, "presentment_money": { "amount": "0.00", "currency_code": "USD" } }, "variant_id": 48070384025880, "variant_inventory_management": "shopify", "variant_title": "L \/ White", "vendor": "MAO_DEV", "tax_lines": [ { "channel_liable": false, "price": "0.36", "price_set": { "shop_money": { "amount": "0.36", "currency_code": "USD" }, "presentment_money": { "amount": "0.36", "currency_code": "USD" } }, "rate": 0.04, "title": "Georgia State Tax" }, { "channel_liable": false, "price": "0.27", "price_set": { "shop_money": { "amount": "0.27", "currency_code": "USD" }, "presentment_money": { "amount": "0.27", "currency_code": "USD" } }, "rate": 0.03, "title": "Fulton County Tax" }, { "channel_liable": false, "price": "0.14", "price_set": { "shop_money": { "amount": "0.14", "currency_code": "USD" }, "presentment_money": { "amount": "0.14", "currency_code": "USD" } }, "rate": 0.015, "title": "Atlanta City Tax" }, { "channel_liable": false, "price": "0.04", "price_set": { "shop_money": { "amount": "0.04", "currency_code": "USD" }, "presentment_money": { "amount": "0.04", "currency_code": "USD" } }, "rate": 0.004, "title": "Atlanta Tsplost Tl" } ], "duties": [], "discount_allocations": [ { "amount": "1.00", "amount_set": { "shop_money": { "amount": "1.00", "currency_code": "USD" }, "presentment_money": { "amount": "1.00", "currency_code": "USD" } }, "discount_application_index": 0 } ] }, { "id": 14775461544216, "admin_graphql_api_id": "gid:\/\/shopify\/LineItem\/14775461544216", "attributed_staffs": [], "current_quantity": 2, "fulfillable_quantity": 2, "fulfillment_service": "manual", "fulfillment_status": null, "gift_card": false, "grams": 0, "name": "19691 - M \/ White", "pre_tax_price": "18.00", "pre_tax_price_set": { "shop_money": { "amount": "18.00", "currency_code": "USD" }, "presentment_money": { "amount": "18.00", "currency_code": "USD" } }, "price": "10.00", "price_set": { "shop_money": { "amount": "10.00", "currency_code": "USD" }, "presentment_money": { "amount": "10.00", "currency_code": "USD" } }, "product_exists": true, "product_id": 9063082787096, "properties": [], "quantity": 2, "requires_shipping": true, "sku": "", "taxable": true, "title": "19691", "total_discount": "0.00", "total_discount_set": { "shop_money": { "amount": "0.00", "currency_code": "USD" }, "presentment_money": { "amount": "0.00", "currency_code": "USD" } }, "variant_id": 48070383960344, "variant_inventory_management": "shopify", "variant_title": "M \/ White", "vendor": "MAO_DEV", "tax_lines": [ { "channel_liable": false, "price": "0.72", "price_set": { "shop_money": { "amount": "0.72", "currency_code": "USD" }, "presentment_money": { "amount": "0.72", "currency_code": "USD" } }, "rate": 0.04, "title": "Georgia State Tax" }, { "channel_liable": false, "price": "0.54", "price_set": { "shop_money": { "amount": "0.54", "currency_code": "USD" }, "presentment_money": { "amount": "0.54", "currency_code": "USD" } }, "rate": 0.03, "title": "Fulton County Tax" }, { "channel_liable": false, "price": "0.27", "price_set": { "shop_money": { "amount": "0.27", "currency_code": "USD" }, "presentment_money": { "amount": "0.27", "currency_code": "USD" } }, "rate": 0.015, "title": "Atlanta City Tax" }, { "channel_liable": false, "price": "0.07", "price_set": { "shop_money": { "amount": "0.07", "currency_code": "USD" }, "presentment_money": { "amount": "0.07", "currency_code": "USD" } }, "rate": 0.004, "title": "Atlanta Tsplost Tl" } ], "duties": [], "discount_allocations": [ { "amount": "2.00", "amount_set": { "shop_money": { "amount": "2.00", "currency_code": "USD" }, "presentment_money": { "amount": "2.00", "currency_code": "USD" } }, "discount_application_index": 0 } ] }, { "id": 14775461576984, "admin_graphql_api_id": "gid:\/\/shopify\/LineItem\/14775461576984", "attributed_staffs": [], "current_quantity": 1, "fulfillable_quantity": 1, "fulfillment_service": "manual", "fulfillment_status": null, "gift_card": false, "grams": 0, "name": "19691 - S \/ Blue", "pre_tax_price": "9.00", "pre_tax_price_set": { "shop_money": { "amount": "9.00", "currency_code": "USD" }, "presentment_money": { "amount": "9.00", "currency_code": "USD" } }, "price": "10.00", "price_set": { "shop_money": { "amount": "10.00", "currency_code": "USD" }, "presentment_money": { "amount": "10.00", "currency_code": "USD" } }, "product_exists": true, "product_id": 9063082787096, "properties": [], "quantity": 1, "requires_shipping": true, "sku": "", "taxable": true, "title": "19691", "total_discount": "0.00", "total_discount_set": { "shop_money": { "amount": "0.00", "currency_code": "USD" }, "presentment_money": { "amount": "0.00", "currency_code": "USD" } }, "variant_id": 48070383862040, "variant_inventory_management": "shopify", "variant_title": "S \/ Blue", "vendor": "MAO_DEV", "tax_lines": [ { "channel_liable": false, "price": "0.36", "price_set": { "shop_money": { "amount": "0.36", "currency_code": "USD" }, "presentment_money": { "amount": "0.36", "currency_code": "USD" } }, "rate": 0.04, "title": "Georgia State Tax" }, { "channel_liable": false, "price": "0.27", "price_set": { "shop_money": { "amount": "0.27", "currency_code": "USD" }, "presentment_money": { "amount": "0.27", "currency_code": "USD" } }, "rate": 0.03, "title": "Fulton County Tax" }, { "channel_liable": false, "price": "0.14", "price_set": { "shop_money": { "amount": "0.14", "currency_code": "USD" }, "presentment_money": { "amount": "0.14", "currency_code": "USD" } }, "rate": 0.015, "title": "Atlanta City Tax" }, { "channel_liable": false, "price": "0.04", "price_set": { "shop_money": { "amount": "0.04", "currency_code": "USD" }, "presentment_money": { "amount": "0.04", "currency_code": "USD" } }, "rate": 0.004, "title": "Atlanta Tsplost Tl" } ], "duties": [], "discount_allocations": [ { "amount": "1.00", "amount_set": { "shop_money": { "amount": "1.00", "currency_code": "USD" }, "presentment_money": { "amount": "1.00", "currency_code": "USD" } }, "discount_application_index": 0 } ] } ], "payment_terms": null, "refunds": [], "shipping_address": { "first_name": "First name", "address1": "address line 1", "phone": null, "city": "Atlanta", "zip": "30316", "province": "Georgia", "country": "United States", "last_name": "last name", "address2": "address line 2", "company": null, "latitude": 33.7471824, "longitude": -84.3625431, "name": "first name last name", "country_code": "US", "province_code": "GA" }, "shipping_lines": [ { "id": 4700203745560, "carrier_identifier": "650f1a14fa979ec5c74d063e968411d4", "code": "Economy", "discounted_price": "4.90", "discounted_price_set": { "shop_money": { "amount": "4.90", "currency_code": "USD" }, "presentment_money": { "amount": "4.90", "currency_code": "USD" } }, "phone": null, "price": "4.90", "price_set": { "shop_money": { "amount": "4.90", "currency_code": "USD" }, "presentment_money": { "amount": "4.90", "currency_code": "USD" } }, "requested_fulfillment_service_id": null, "source": "shopify", "title": "Economy", "tax_lines": [ { "channel_liable": false, "price": "0.00", "price_set": { "shop_money": { "amount": "0.00", "currency_code": "USD" }, "presentment_money": { "amount": "0.00", "currency_code": "USD" } }, "rate": 0.04, "title": "Georgia State Tax" }, { "channel_liable": false, "price": "0.00", "price_set": { "shop_money": { "amount": "0.00", "currency_code": "USD" }, "presentment_money": { "amount": "0.00", "currency_code": "USD" } }, "rate": 0.03, "title": "Fulton County Tax" }, { "channel_liable": false, "price": "0.00", "price_set": { "shop_money": { "amount": "0.00", "currency_code": "USD" }, "presentment_money": { "amount": "0.00", "currency_code": "USD" } }, "rate": 0.015, "title": "Atlanta City Tax" }, { "channel_liable": false, "price": "0.00", "price_set": { "shop_money": { "amount": "0.00", "currency_code": "USD" }, "presentment_money": { "amount": "0.00", "currency_code": "USD" } }, "rate": 0.004, "title": "Atlanta Tsplost Tl" } ], "discount_allocations": [ { "amount": "4.90", "amount_set": { "shop_money": { "amount": "4.90", "currency_code": "USD" }, "presentment_money": { "amount": "4.90", "currency_code": "USD" } }, "discount_application_index": 1 } ] } ] } } Failed Messages If an order or a payment fails to be created for any reason, it will be posted to failed messages for future re-processing. Related Articles Payment Integration with ShopifyShopify Technical IntegrationInventory Integration with ShopifyShop Pay Integration