# SIF Integration Requirements

**Permalink:** sif-integration-requirements
**Content Length:** 3,828 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:39:00.438090

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Administrator Tools ››SIF Integration Requirements SIF Integration Requirements Fulfillment Integration The following attributes must be considered for bridging in replenishment fulfillment&nbsp;to be received in Active Omni Store Inventory and Fulfillment. Entity Attribute Value Fulfillment DocType ShipConfirmation Fulfillment DeliveryMethod DCtoStore Fulfillment MinStatus 5000.000 Fulfillment MaxStatus 5000.000 Fulfillment Line FulfillmentLineStatusId 5000.000 Package DeliveryType Store Inventory &nbsp; Note: If the Fulfillment&#39;s Min and Max status is&nbsp;not &quot;Shipped&quot; (5000.000) and the Fulfillment Line&#39;s FulfillmentLineStatusId is not &quot;Shipped&quot; (5000.000), then they will be defaulted to &quot;Created&quot; (1000.000) status. Note:&nbsp;DeliveryMethodSubType is mapped against Release.DeliveryMethodSubType. It is a sub-classification of Delivery Method and is used to differentiate between In Store Pickup and Curbside Pickup. It is also used to differentiate between Ship to Address and Send Sale Orders. Replenishment Orders must be ShipToAddress.&nbsp;(DeliveryMethodId has to be ShipToAddress) Item Master integration The following attributes must be populated for SIF implementations, even though they are not defined as mandatory in the Item entity. Refer to Item section in Master Data&nbsp;guide for more information. Entity Attribute Comments Item WeightUOM Weight UOM on the item is used for package weight calculation. Valid values are&nbsp;KG,LB or OZS. Item BaseUOM Base UOM&nbsp;is required during picking in Store Fulfillment Manufacturing Attribute UPC When a manufacturing attribute record is added to an item,&nbsp;UPC&nbsp;must be populated. Item Codes Value When an item code record is added to an item, the Value field must be populated. However, the Value field should not be the same as the ItemId. &nbsp; Note: Localization of Unit Of Measurement is not supported. Only the UOM label can be localized.&nbsp;