# SIM Purging Process

**Permalink:** sim-purging-process
**Content Length:** 6,634 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:36:28.127711

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Inventory & Fulfillment&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Inventory Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;SIM Purging ››SIM Purging Process SIM Purging Process Store ReceiptsInventory AdjustmentsCycle countsStore countsUnit Inventory&nbsp;Services The purging process helps to maintain application&nbsp;performance&nbsp;by cleaning up old, unused&nbsp;data from the database. Once data is purged, it cannot be searched or restored. The Store Receipts and Inventory Adjustments and cycle counts&nbsp;data can be purged.&nbsp;&nbsp; Store Receipts Store receipt data contains&nbsp;a record of all the packages and items that are received in the store. Since receiving occurs against a fulfillment, the fulfillment&nbsp;archive/purge process triggers the purge of store receipts and corresponding inventory log entries. Refer to the Fulfillment Archive/Purge process and configuration guides for more details. Note:&nbsp;If store receipt(s) are associated with a fulfillment that&#39;s been selected for archive or purge, the store receipt data and inventory logs are purged. Store receipts and the corresponding inventory log entries are purged&nbsp;irrespective of whether fulfillment is configured to&nbsp;archive&nbsp;or purge. Archive is not available for store receipt data. Steps involved in Store Receipts Purging: 1. Fulfillment Outbound message &nbsp;When fulfillment is about to be archived/purged, fulfillment component sends a message to SIM component. The outbound message contains the fulfillment and package details. Outbound messages are sent only for the following fulfillments:&nbsp; Fulfillment with Delivery method =&nbsp;ShipToAddress and ShipToLocation &lt;&gt; null Fulfillment with Delivery method = ShipToLocation Fuflillment with Delivery Method =&nbsp;ShipToStore and DestinationAction&nbsp;=&nbsp;Merge Fulfillment with Delivery Method = DCtoStore Note: Ensure that Outbound message type&nbsp;and Extension point to message type are configured in fulfillment component to send the outbound message to the queue 2. Consume the inbound messages SIM&nbsp;component&nbsp;consumes the message from the queue and purges the corresponding store receipt records for all the packages. If there are corresponding inventory log records, they are purged as well.&nbsp; Note: Ensure that inbound&nbsp;message type is configured in SIM&nbsp;component to consume&nbsp;the outbound message from fulfillment Inventory Adjustments Once inventory adjustments are approved or rejected, they can be&nbsp;purged after&nbsp;a configured time period using a job scheduler. Inventory log entries corresponding to the adjustments are also purged. Refer to the inventory adjustment purge age configuration in the configuration guide for details. Cycle counts After cycle counts are approved&nbsp;or declined, they can be&nbsp;purged after&nbsp;a configured time period using a job scheduler. Task details and Inventory log entries corresponding to the cycle counts&nbsp;are also purged. Refer to the cycle count purging&nbsp;age configuration in the&nbsp;configuration guide&nbsp;for details. Store counts After store counts are canceled or completed, they can be&nbsp;purged in 60 days by the base purge framework. Unit Inventory&nbsp; Unit Inventory records in &quot;Missing&quot; status, which are untouched for 30 days, are purged. Unit Inventory records in &quot;Departed&quot; or &quot;Removed&quot; statuses, which are untouched for 7&nbsp;days, are purged. Unit Inventory records in &quot;Inbound&quot; status, which are untouched for 90&nbsp;days, are purged. Services The&nbsp;APIs listed in the following table are referenced in this document. Refer to the API documentation for additional details on&nbsp;each service. Service Component Group Service Endpoint None &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;