# Size Profile Policies

**Permalink:** size-profile-policies
**Content Length:** 9,971 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:48.577011

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Configurations&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Size Profiling ››Size Profile Policies Size Profile Policies &nbsp; &nbsp; Size Profile PoliciesFiltersCreating a Size Profile PolicyEditing a Size Profile PolicyDeleting a&nbsp;PolicyField Description The size profile policies page enables you to create guidelines that specify the rules for generating size profiles.&nbsp; &nbsp; Filters Following is the list of filters available on the screen: Size Profile Policy Id Description Weeks of History Department Class Subclass &nbsp; Creating a Size Profile Policy &nbsp; To create a new Size Profile Policy: &nbsp; Select Menu &gt; Size Profiling &gt; Size Profile Policies. Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Click Create to view the Create New Size Profile Policy window. On the Policy Definition page, enter a unique Size Profile Policy Id along with a Description (if required). Select a Department from the drop-down list and click Save and Continue. You can also select a Class and Subclass depending on the level at&nbsp;which the policy has to be assigned. On the Product Hierarchy Levels page, you can select one or more Size Profile Policy Levels by clicking Add New. Search and select the relevant Metric Type Id on the Fulfillment History Categories Page. You can select more than one if required. On the History Used Settings page, slide the bar to Specify the number of weeks of history to use. Alternatively, you can specify a start date for the history used. Slide the bar to choose the Minimum Sales Units per size to recommend Size Profiles, and choose Yes or No to Adjust for True Demand. On the Recommend Size Profiles for New Locations page, choose Yes or No to Automatically recommend Size Profile for Stores with Little or No Demand History. Enter a value for Lower Bound for Average Number of Locations per Cluster, and another value for Maximum Number of Clusters. The minimum allowed value here is 2 and the maximum is 30. On the Specify Attributes to Use For Recommending Size Profiles for New Locations page, you can choose the Location Attribute to be assigned to the Size Profile Policy, and then using the same for clustering. Click Add New to select a Location Attribute from the drop-down. Click Save and Finish. Note:&nbsp;All mandatory fields are denoted with *. &nbsp; Editing a Size Profile Policy &nbsp; You can edit the attributes of an existing Size Profile Policy using one of the below procedures: &nbsp; Swipe-out List Select Menu &gt; Size Profiling &gt; Size Profile Policies. Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Select the required policy. Swipe-out the menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Edit. In the Edit&nbsp;Size Profile Policy&nbsp;window, modify the required fields except for Size Profile Policy Id. Click&nbsp;Save &amp; Close&nbsp;to save the modified policy details. Edit View Select the required policy record card. The action buttons are displayed in the footer section. Click&nbsp;Edit&nbsp;to view the edit&nbsp;Size Profile Policy window. Modify the required fields except for Size Profile Policy Id. Click&nbsp;Save &amp; Close&nbsp;to save the modified policy details. &nbsp; Deleting a&nbsp;Policy &nbsp; The policy records can be deleted by following one of the below procedures: &nbsp; Swipe-out List Select Menu &gt; Size Profiling &gt; Size Profile Policies. Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Swipe-out menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts as &#39;Deletion of Size Profile Policy is irreversible&#39;. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the policy. Delete Select the required record card. The footer section with action buttons is displayed. Select&nbsp;Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts as &#39;Deletion of Size Profile Policy is irreversible&#39;. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the policy. &nbsp; Field Description Following are the field descriptions of the attributes available on the screen. &nbsp; Field &nbsp; Description &nbsp; Size Profile Policy Id An alphanumeric ID that uniquely defines each policy. Description The description of the policy. Department Defines the organization hierarchy structure at the department level. &nbsp; Class Defines the organization hierarchy structure at the class level. Subclass Defines the organization hierarchy structure at the subclass level. Weeks of History Displays the number of weeks in sales history where the policy is applicable. &nbsp; Action Buttons Following are the action buttons available on the screen. &nbsp; Select All Rows Selects all the rows of records on the screen. Related Links Displays the links to the pages related to the current screen. Export Exports the list of method attributes, the file will be downloaded onto your system. View&nbsp;Export&nbsp;for more information. Create Opens the Create New Size Profile Policy window.&nbsp; Deselect Clears the selected records. Edit Opens the relevant Size Profile Policy window. Delete Deletes the selected record. Submit for Regeneration Creates a size profile using the selected size profile policy. Submit for Clustering Creates a cluster profile. &nbsp;