# Size Categories

**Permalink:** size-categories
**Content Length:** 9,661 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:57.894065

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Configurations&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Items ››Size Categories Size Categories &nbsp; Size CategoriesFiltersCreating a Size CategoryEditing a Size CategoryDeleting a Size CategoryField DescriptionAction Buttons Size is an attribute&nbsp;that indicates&nbsp;the dimensions of items. The size category defines the range of sizes that apply to the item category.&nbsp;It describes the classification or grouping of certain sizes of an item.&nbsp; Every item is assigned by size category and respective size id.&nbsp;Size profiles are generated for specific size categories. &nbsp; Filters Size Category Description Creating a Size Category To create a new size category: &nbsp; Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt; Configurations &gt;&nbsp;Items&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Size Categories. Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Click&nbsp;Create&nbsp;to view the&nbsp;Size Category&nbsp;window. Enter the&nbsp;Size Category&nbsp;and&nbsp;Description. Select a&nbsp;Size&nbsp;and click&nbsp;Save. Note:&nbsp;All mandatory fields are denoted with *. Editing a Size Category &nbsp; To edit a Size Category: &nbsp; Swipe-out List Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt; Configurations&nbsp;&gt; Item &gt; Size Categories. Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Select the required category record. Swipe-out the menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Edit. In the&nbsp;Size Category&nbsp;window, modify the required fields. Click&nbsp;Save&nbsp;to save the modified category details. Edit View Select the required item&nbsp;record card. The action buttons are displayed in the footer section. Click&nbsp;Edit&nbsp;to view the&nbsp;Size Category&nbsp;window, and modify the required fields. Click&nbsp;Save&nbsp;to save the modified category details. Details View Select the required record card. The footer section with action buttons is displayed. Click the&nbsp;Details&nbsp;button to view the Size Category&nbsp;window. Click the&nbsp;Edit&nbsp;button to view the Size Category&nbsp;window. Modify the required sections. Click&nbsp;Save. Deleting a Size Category &nbsp; To delete a size category: &nbsp; Swipe-out List Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt; Configurations&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Items &gt;&nbsp;Size Categories. Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. You will see the records on the list pane. Swipe-out menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts as &#39;Deletion of Size Category is irreversible&#39;. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the policy. Delete Select the required record card. The footer section with action buttons is displayed. Select&nbsp;Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts as &#39;Deletion of Size Category is irreversible&#39;. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the policy. &nbsp; Field Description Following are the field descriptions of the attributes available on the screen. &nbsp; Field &nbsp; Description &nbsp; Size Category Specifies the size category name. Description The description of the category. Created By Mentions the name of the user who created the size category. Created Timestamp Specifies the date and time of the creation of the size category. &nbsp; Action Buttons Following are the action buttons available on the screen. &nbsp; Select All Rows Selects all the rows of records on the screen. Export Exports the list of method attributes, the file will be downloaded onto your system. View&nbsp;Export&nbsp;for more information. Create Opens the&nbsp;Size Category&nbsp;window.&nbsp; Export Data Loader It&nbsp;allows a user to export the data&nbsp;that is returned from the filter on the UI into a spreadsheet format. All fields will be exported. There is no option to select specific fields to be exported. Export Data Loader process is asynchronous. &nbsp; Upon completion of the export, an alert notification will appear on the&nbsp;top right corner of the UI. Import Data Loader It allows a user to import data from a spreadsheet into the system.&nbsp;The user can use the exported spreadsheet as a template for importing new data into the system.&nbsp; When this import data loader button is clicked, the user is presented with a modal where they can choose the file name and the location to upload from.&nbsp;&nbsp; Upon completion of the import,&nbsp;an alert notification will appear on the top right corner of the UI.&nbsp; Deselect Clears the selected records. Details Opens the&nbsp;Size Category&nbsp;window displaying details of the selected record. You can view the available sizes here and add more if required. Edit Opens the&nbsp;Size Category&nbsp;window for editing the selected record. Delete Deletes the selected record. Expand All The&nbsp;Size&nbsp;displays the Display Order number,&nbsp; Size, and Description details. Collapse All The&nbsp;Size&nbsp;will not display&nbsp;Display Order number,&nbsp; Size, and Description details. &nbsp;