# Size Profiles

**Permalink:** size-profiles
**Content Length:** 6,240 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:49.340765

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Configurations&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Size Profiling ››Size Profiles &nbsp; Size Profiles &nbsp; &nbsp; Size ProfilesFiltersAllocation Size ProfileField DescriptionAction Buttons Size profiles represent the different sizes of an item&nbsp;available at a location. This page accumulates and displays data mainly relating to the sizes, number of items, and more. The size profile for the location is assigned to a location. &nbsp; Filters The following is the list of filters available on the screen: Size Profile Id Size Profile Policy Id Class Color Department Description Location Id Size Category Id Style Subclass Location Name Size Category Name Cluster Name Item Hierarchy Filter Hash &nbsp; Allocation Size Profile &nbsp; The Allocation Size Profile window shows a chart displaying the size profile, sales profile, and cluster profile for a location. The cluster profile shows a correlation across the bar chart with the sales and size profiles.&nbsp; You can search for a style by searching for a Style ID, or by selecting a style name available under Top Style.&nbsp; You can also click on the Size Profile Cluster to view the Cluster Profile page. &nbsp; Field Description Following are the field descriptions of the attributes available on the screen. &nbsp; Field &nbsp; Description &nbsp; Size Profile Id An alphanumeric ID that uniquely defines each profile. Description The description of the size profile. Size Profile Policy Id An alphanumeric ID that uniquely defines each policy. Location Id An alphanumeric ID that uniquely defines each location. Size Category Id An alphanumeric ID that uniquely defines each size category. Department Defines the organization hierarchy structure at the department level. Class Defines the organization hierarchy structure at the class level. Subclass Defines the organization hierarchy structure at the subclass level. Style Defines the style of the product. Color Specifies the color of the product. Location Name Specifies the name of the location. Size Category Name Specifies the name of the size category. &nbsp; Action Buttons Following are the action buttons available on the screen. &nbsp; Select All Rows Selects all the rows of records on the screen. Related Links Displays the links to the pages related to the current screen. Export Exports the list of method attributes, the file will be downloaded onto your system. View&nbsp;Export&nbsp;for more information. Export Data Loader IIt&nbsp;allows a user to export the data&nbsp;that is returned from the filter on the UI into a spreadsheet format. All fields will be exported. There is no option to select specific fields to be exported. Export Data Loader process is asynchronous. &nbsp; Upon completion of the export, an alert notification will appear on the&nbsp;top right corner of the UI. Deselect Clears the selected records. Size Profile Displays the Allocation Size Profile window. &nbsp;