# Social Listening Details

**Permalink:** socialdetails
**Content Length:** 8,365 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:35:27.184530

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Customer Engagement&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Social Listening ››Social Listening Details Social Listening Details The application must be integrated with Facebook and Twitter for the post to be listed in Social Listening page. Refer to the&nbsp;Social Media Configuration Guide for details. Social listening helps to keep track of social following through channels such as Facebook and Twitter. This page provides a&nbsp;view of&nbsp;the feeds and messages from the customers across all channels. Benefits&nbsp;of social listening is as follows: Direct view and posting of feeds to the customer on the social media platforms. Monitor engagement of&nbsp;your posts. Get the actual active feeds that require&nbsp;attention for the day. Ability to filter the feeds based on the social media selection. Example: Select Twitter to view feeds only from Twitter. Resolution time for customer issues reduces. Social MetricsNotificationsSocial Feed listViewing the feed/messages&nbsp;Associate&nbsp;a customer with&nbsp;a feed/message.Replying to a customer Navigate to left quick access pane and click Social&nbsp;to view the&nbsp;Social Listening page. This page&nbsp;is categorized in the following way:&nbsp; Social Metrics Social Feed List (Left Panel) Viewing the feed/messages (Central Panel) CSR social response panel (Right panel) Social Metrics The social metrics computes and displays the data for feeds that are active or&nbsp;completed. It also displays the Facebook and Twitter feed count. Active - Number of feeds that are&nbsp;open and require intervention by the CSR. Done Today- Number of feeds that have been resolved today. Facebook Today - Total number of posts, comments and messages posted in Facebook&nbsp;for the organization profile. The number of post gives the CSR an estimate of the&nbsp;volume of posts that will line up in the Active section during&nbsp;the day. Twitter Today - Total number or tweets, comments, re-tweets in Twitter for the organization profile.&nbsp; Notifications The Notifications feature enables the CSRs to view the notifications (open cases) associated with the customers.&nbsp; In the upper right&nbsp;corner of the page, click the&nbsp;Notifications&nbsp;drop-down arrow to&nbsp;view the notification panel. The notification panel displays the&nbsp;open cases for the selected customer. Click on each notification to display the corresponding case details.&nbsp; Social Feed list The social feed list is on the left panel of the screen. This section contains two tabs Active and Done -&nbsp;Both the tabs list&nbsp;all the posts and messages from Facebook and twitter.&nbsp;The CSR can filter the posts in both the tabs using the following radio buttons All - Select to list all the feeds to the organization which is in active state. Feed - Select only the posts that have come from the social media channel. The list is displayed based on the filter selection made to&nbsp;the social media channels.&nbsp;For example, select Facebook check box to view only Facebook related posts. Message - Select to view only messages. Viewing the feed/messages&nbsp; Details of the selected post from the list is displayed in this panel.&nbsp; Feed- This section displays the complete thread of posts, replies&nbsp;and comments. The image of the product is also displayed and corresponding case number&nbsp;if any is associated with the feed. Message - This section displays&nbsp;the complete conversation thread&nbsp; through the messenger between the CSR and customer.&nbsp; Associate&nbsp;a customer with&nbsp;a feed/message. When we have a feed or message&nbsp;from an existing customer through a social media platform, we must&nbsp;assign the feed&nbsp;to the customer in the application. To associate the feed with a customer, perform the following steps: Filter the feed and select the required post In the Attach a Customer section, enter the name of the customer in the&nbsp;Search Customer edit box&nbsp;and click&nbsp;. Select the customer name from the populated list.&nbsp;Click Attach.&nbsp; Replying to a customer The CSR will reply to the customer for the social media post using this section. Filter the feed and select the required post The details of the post are&nbsp;displayed. In the reply to customer section, enter the details in the edit box. Select the Follow-up tag if this post/issue by the customer requires more time and will be&nbsp;resolved at a future date. Click More and create a case for the issue. Select a Reason from the drop-down list. The options available in the drop-down list Store Enquiry, Gift wrap message, promotion and so on. Select a Resolution from the drop-down list. Resolution is the method by which the issue has been resolved. For example- order modification, appeasement&nbsp;etc. Enter notes related to the case if required. Click Done.