# Social Listening Process Guide

**Permalink:** social-listening-process-guide
**Content Length:** 19,496 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:35:06.499558

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Customer Engagement&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Interactions&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Interaction Configuration ››Social Listening Process Guide Social Media and Social Listening OverviewSocial Media Integration Process StepsSocial Listening UI Process FlowSocial MetricsActiveDone TodayX&nbsp;TodaySocial Listening DashboardHow to Set Up a X&nbsp;AccountConfigure&nbsp;JSONMethods to Get Instant Messages from Media- X&nbsp; Streaming Note: Facebook integration is not supported currently.&nbsp; Overview Social Media Listening is one way of engaging with the customer. The objective of the social monitoring step of the social listening process is to gather customer data. The data we gather will be essential to various aspects of a retailer’s business such as customer service, public relations, advertising, marketing, and product development. Manhattan Active® Customer Engagement integrates with X so customer service teams can monitor and reply. Social listening provides capabilities in the Active® Omni&nbsp;Customer Engagement (CE) solution. Some&nbsp;are listed below: Integrate with social media sites X&nbsp;and Messenger. Read the Social user data from the media sites. Social metrics to give visibility on the incoming volume for customer posts and CSR addressing the messages. Read the Social messages posted on a retailer’s public page/account by the social community. Read the attachments shared by social users, such as Images. Link the social user to customers using attached customer functionality. Display the social user data on social listening dashboard. Social listening UI capabilities, such as&nbsp;Create Case and reply to customer posts Social Media Integration Process Steps Read the social media data from a retailer’s page or handler. Call scheduler or web hooks to read and get the messages into social component. All media feeds are staged into social component. Get the customer Id from the social account mapping (customer component) Get the open cases (Case component) for the social user and attach to the feeds. Get number of likes and update it on social feeds and customer Interactions. Create Customer Interactions (Interaction component) for the social feeds having cases attached. Auto create interactions for the messenger feeds. Attach the social user&nbsp;to a customer in social account (customer child entity). Any X&nbsp;usage fees must be handled directly with X&nbsp;and outside of Manhattan Active Omni. All the social feeds and messages are fetched and downloaded into a social component which is like a staging entity. On processing&nbsp;social feed through different business APIs, the system&nbsp;updates the data into social feed. The&nbsp;system creates interactions only when a social feed has a case attached to it. Interactions are the records which are viewed by Case CSR [Case details display all the recent interactions for case for the customer]. All the recent interactions from different communication channels are displayed on the customer dashboard interaction panel. Data flow within components for social interactions The system currently downloads all the social data shared by external media for&nbsp;social users along with their posts, messages, and respective feed attachments&nbsp;such as&nbsp;images (single) and display them&nbsp;on the social listening UI. Social user data that is currently available&nbsp;is social user’s profile picture, number of tweets on the retailer’s X&nbsp;handler, and the number of X&nbsp;followers for the customer. This data helps CSR teams to see how much influential and engaged a specific customer is, based on which they can prioritize the feeds, give appeasements, or provide discounts which could&nbsp;enhance customer service. Social feeds which are downloaded directly from the media sites (X) are stored as Feeds and messenger messages are stored as messages. Social listening has two separate central panels to display them separately. Using the configuration required such as&nbsp;pageid, X handlerid and&nbsp;access tokens, the&nbsp;system will fetch the social messages posted by customers and CSR. Social Stage the social data from social media:&nbsp; X, Direct Message Customer Interactions Record&nbsp;Interactions for any follow-up with a case for the customer social message. Interactions are viewed in Customer Dashboard and the Case details screen. Metrics and analytics on social listening UI: Social Posts X volume Done feeds Active feeds Social Data Fetched Read/Post messages and attachments (only X&nbsp;-single image) Get social user profile picture, social username. Read and post Likes (only at entity level, not on UI) Identify Case (for same social user feeds) Identify Customers (read the mapping in social account) Get number of X&nbsp;followers Get number of tweets Delete CSR messages (CSR social UI) There are different ways to retrieve social data from the social media sites: Job scheduler – Get feeds. Web hooks – runtime/instant download. X&nbsp;streaming – X&nbsp;feeds, and direct messages are fetched. Note: Refer to the Configuration section&nbsp;for scheduler and webhooks config. Social Listening UI Process Flow &nbsp; The Social Listening UI displays the social metrics derived out of the social customer and CSR data. Social Metrics Active This metric is used to get the number of open feeds across media till date. It includes all the social feeds from X&nbsp;which are not addressed/closed by CSR, which are in draft and open status. It doesn't include the CSR posts/admin message for this metric. Done Today This metric is used to get the number of feeds closed by CSR today. It indicates all the feeds closed by CSR and&nbsp;helps CSR to get an idea on how much are addressed on daily basis. It's done using the social feeds Closed status and Time attribute for the user locale. X&nbsp;Today This metric is used to display the incoming posts and tweets, re-tweets and messages from the social customer from both X&nbsp;and direct message (X&nbsp;messenger) for the user's current (locale) day. If X&nbsp;account doesn't exist, then displays zero. Metric doesn't include the outbound, that is,&nbsp;CSR/Admin messages for this metrics. Social Listening Dashboard Social listening dashboard has three sections:&nbsp; 1. Social Feed List (Left panel) Active Tab Lists all the social feeds which are not closed, such as&nbsp;social feeds which are in Draft and Open status. For example,&nbsp;any feed from customers are going to be in open status unless they have a case attached.&nbsp;The active tab has an option to close/move the feeds to Done tab. Done Tab Lists all the social feeds which are addressed or closed by CSR, such as&nbsp;social feeds which are in closed status. For example, all the posts which are addressed and verified by CSR, they are&nbsp;marked as&nbsp;done using UI option and system logic shall move the feeds as Done. Note: If Feed has a case and the case is closed, then CSR need to close the Social Feed manually from social list panel. 2. Social Feeds and Messages View (Central Panel) Feeds: Display&nbsp;the complete thread of feeds (posts, comments and replies) by customer and CSR along with the image. Case Id are attached to the feeds which has the case number. Messages: Display&nbsp;the complete thread of messenger conversation between customer and CSR. Case Id are attached to the feeds which has got case number. 3. Social CSR Action (Rightmost panel) The social CSRs&nbsp;have&nbsp;an option to address the customer post and messages, and the team can perform&nbsp;the&nbsp;following actions: Respond to customer post (response goes to media sites) Follow up with a Case Add notes to case Populate reason and resolution codes while follow up with case. Social Listening has ability to create case with following attributes: Case description: Social message text against which CSR responded&nbsp;or had a follow-up. Case Origin: Social Case Note: Entered in Notes section Case Category: Reason code Case Resolution Code: Resolution code if case is created in open status (Follow up checked) Case Resolution Description: CSR response if case is created in closed status (Follow up unchecked). Case Priority: Medium CustomerId: Passed from Social if known Attach Customer CSR will have an ability to attach social user with the customer and establish the mapping in customer component. On search, customer search will return the matching customer name, email, and phone. Once a social user is attached, the user is identified as registered customer and the customer panel is added to the social listening board.&nbsp;Attach customer option is available from both Feeds and Messages data. How to Set Up a X&nbsp;Account Note: Content&nbsp;in this&nbsp;document is to be used as&nbsp;reference only,&nbsp;as the third party pages are subject to change.&nbsp;It includes third&nbsp;party URLs and navigation steps. All the mentioned settings and configurations are applicable for test accounts and not for business accounts. Follow the following steps to configure retailers X account. Create an X account using the&nbsp;user Id and password. Setup X Account and get all the required technical parameters&nbsp;from https://apps.X/Twitter.com/ to configure the X account. Generate the following to set up a X retailer’s account: Navigate to Keys and Access token tab, generate the Consumer secret and Consumer Key (API Key), and then set the levels of permissions and access levels to read, write, and direct messages. Note that the user has the option to re-generate the consumer and secret key. Post App creation,&nbsp;the system takes&nbsp;the user to the application details page. Application details page displays the following fields.&nbsp; Enter Name, Description, Website and Callback URL. Create an App, provide&nbsp;a valid URL format, mobile number and other necessary details&nbsp;and then click&nbsp;create your X application. User also has an option to re-generate consumer key and secret option. Owner (X HandlerID)&nbsp; (Pageid attribute on social feed stores the X&nbsp;handle) OwnerId (X&nbsp;user account id - not used in user social configuration) To enable direct messages for the retailer's X account, enable the Privacy and safety settings. Note:&nbsp;Once above privacy settings are enabled or changed, user needs to re-generate the user access token and set the configuration. After getting above data post the social config JSON in omni application environment Configure Social Configuration json on social component app consul, below is a sample json. Configure the properties in Consul. Once parameter is set up at consul level, system reads the same without a restart. Login to Kvstore of your production or testing environment: example http://{envurl}/ui/#/us-east-1/services for test environment, with system admin login user credentials. Click on Key/Value menu option. Open Config folder listed on left bar navigation. Search for file called "com-manh-cp-social/" sample. component.property should have the key values for social config Json. Under this file you need to config the key value application properties. Note: Please have Ops team to do this config as one-time setup. Configure&nbsp;JSON Configure Social Configuration json on social component application consul. Sample json of user is detailed below.&nbsp; socialConfig.exampleorg-us={ &nbsp;&nbsp;"orgId": "exampleOrg-us", &nbsp;&nbsp;"X/TwitterConfig": { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"pageId": "samplePageId", &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"X/TwitterConsumerKey": "xxxxx",&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"X/TwitterConsumerSecret": "xxxx", &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"X/TwitterAccessTokenId": "xxxxx-xx", &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"X/TwitterAccessTokenSecret": "xxxx" &nbsp;&nbsp;} } Methods to Get Instant Messages from Media- X&nbsp; Streaming Configure X Streaming Like the web hooks, X media has real time streaming process which works as push notifications and download the instant messages.&nbsp;For X&nbsp; streaming to be enabled, send the below APIs: Call back URL for X:&nbsp; http:// {appenv}/api/social/socialfeed/XTwitter/startX/TwitterStreaming?X/TwitterHandle=iamDianaW&user=dummyUser&organization=dummyOrg https:// {appenv}/social/api/social/socialfeed/X/Twitter/startX/TwitterStreaming?X/TwitterHandle=iamDianaW Note:&nbsp;All these settings and configurations are applicable only for test accounts and not for business accounts. The above media screens used for set up are only used as reference and&nbsp;can be changed from social media sites.&nbsp;