# SOQ Computation

**Permalink:** soq-computation
**Content Length:** 20,722 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:37:30.822281

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process &amp; Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Replenishment ››SOQ Computation SOQ Computation Previous&nbsp;I&nbsp;Next OverviewProcess Flow&nbsp; &nbsp;Implementation FlavorsUIs and EntitiesServicesRelated Articles Overview The&nbsp;Suggested Order Quantity (SOQ)&nbsp;is a recommended quantity of inventory that should be ordered to optimize&nbsp;inventory levels and associated costs.&nbsp; Objective:&nbsp;To&nbsp;keep optimal inventory to meet customer demand while being cost-effective Goal:&nbsp;To determine the amount of inventory to keep in stock&nbsp; To calculate an SOQ, Inventory Optimization compares the current inventory with the optimal level of inventory that has to be present and then determines the SOQ for each Item Location. Inventory Optimization uses the below factors for calculating the SOQ:- Inventory Position Order Point Order Upto Level Raw Order Quantity ROQ Modifiers &nbsp; Process Flow&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Compute Daily Forecast: Forecast is an estimation of the future demand. Inventory Optimization gets the forecast from the Demand Forecast Component. Replenishment calculates the average forecast for a particular week, and the daily average forecast is calculated using the same.&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;Example Average Weekly&nbsp;Forecast&nbsp;&nbsp;=&nbsp;70 units Average Daily Forecast = 10 units &nbsp; Safety Stock:&nbsp;Safety stock is the&nbsp;quantity of inventory that&nbsp;is&nbsp;held&nbsp;in reserve above normal operational needs.&nbsp;The primary purpose of safety stock is to mitigate the risk of stockouts due to variability in&nbsp;demand. Safety stock is computed based on the safety stock components. Example In this example we are considering&nbsp;5 days as Safety Stock for calculating the SOQ Average Daily Forecast = 10units Safety Stock Quantity per day = 10 units Safety Stock Quantity for 5 days = 50 units &nbsp; &nbsp; Lead Time:&nbsp;Number of days between when an order is placed and when the ordered quantity is available for sale. Refer&nbsp;Lead Time page for more details. &nbsp; Lead Time&nbsp; Time Required For Creating the Order Buyer to create a PO Transmit th Order Sending the PO to the Supplier Fill the Order Supplier to receive the PO and stage for shipping Transport the Order Supplier to ship item to the vendor location Receive the Order Item to be received at the vendor location Stock the Order Stock the item on the shelf to be available for sale &nbsp; Example Let&nbsp;us&nbsp;use 7 days of lead time Avg Daily Forecast = 10 units 7&nbsp;days&nbsp;lead time = 70 units &nbsp; Order Cycle Review Cycle (Days):&nbsp;Days between the current day and the next valid review day. Review Cycle (Days, Units) - Computed based on the review policy set at Relationship level Example &nbsp; If today is Friday, the review cycle value will be 3, because there are 3 days between Friday & Monday If&nbsp;today&nbsp;is&nbsp;Tuesday, the review cycle value will be 2, because there are 2 days between Tuesday & Thursday We will consider 2 days(example) as the Review cycle for the SOQ calculation Joint Order Cycle:&nbsp;The Joint Order Cycle(JOC) represents an estimate of how often orders will be placed for a given relationship and defines the number of days of supply needed to cover the time between orders. Configured at the sourcing relationship level and inherited by&nbsp;Item Locations&nbsp;and is applied consistently across SKUs within that relationship. The SOQ remains constant regardless of the day of the week. Example Joint Order Cycle is configured at 7 days Average Daily Forecast = 10 units Joint Order Cycle Units = 70 units Economic Order Cycle: It is the most economical inventory quantity to purchase (in days) for the SKU, based on the acquisition and carrying costs. The economic order cycle is the order cycle for a SKU if it was purchased independently from the other SKUs in the relationship. &nbsp; Order Point:&nbsp;The point at which SOQ should be computed If the Inventory Position is below the Order Point, SOQ computation will be triggered. SOQ computation is not triggered for a SKU - when Inventory Position is more than the Order Point for a SKU Order Point&nbsp;&nbsp;= Safety Stock + Next Lead Time + Max (Review Cycle, Joint Order Cycle) &nbsp; Order Upto Level:&nbsp;Optimum quantity of Inventory to have Order Upto Level&nbsp;= Safety Stock + Next Lead Time + Max(Review Cycle, Joint Order Cycle, Economic Order Cycle) &nbsp; Inventory Position:&nbsp;Current position&nbsp;of&nbsp;inventory at any given point in&nbsp;time Inventory Position= On Hand + On Order &ndash; Committed Quantity On&nbsp;Hand&nbsp;- Quantity in stock and ready for sale On&nbsp;Order&nbsp;&ndash; Quantity&nbsp;on&nbsp;open&nbsp;purchase orders Committed&nbsp;&ndash; Quantity&nbsp;unavailable because of backorders, reserves or hold outs. &nbsp; Raw Order Quantity(ROQ):&nbsp;Raw Order Quantity is the order quantity before other ROQ modifiers like Buying Multiple, Minimum Purchase Quantity is considered Raw Order Quantity = Order Up to Level &ndash; Inventory Position ROQ Modifier - ExamplesROQ Modifiers helps to compute the final SOQ. &nbsp; There can be scenarios where it is economically profitable to purchase in bulk or in multiples.&nbsp; Example: Vendors can provide additional discounts when purchased extra. These are referred as ROQ modifiers. Example: The multiples in which a SKU must be purchased. The final quantity should always be the multiple of this number. Example: Vendors might have a clause which says whenever a SKU is ordered a minimum quantity must be ordered. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Suggested Order Quantity(SOQ): &nbsp;This is&nbsp;the final quantity to be ordered&nbsp;to replenish stock levels. Suggested Order Quantity = Raw Order Quantity + Raw Order Quantity Modifiers Weekly Forecast 70 Computed Daily Forceast 10 Computed Safety Stock 50 Computed Lead Time 70 Configured Review Cycle&nbsp; 2 Configured Joint Order Cycle&nbsp; 7 Configured Economic Order Cycle 8 Computed Order Point 210 Order Point&nbsp;&nbsp;= Safety Stock + Next Lead Time + Max (Review Cycle, Joint Order Cycle) Order Upto Level 220 Order Point&nbsp;&nbsp;= Safety Stock + Next Lead Time + Max(Review Cycle, Joint Order Cycle, Economic Order Cycle) Inventory Position 100 Inventory Position= On Hand + On Order &ndash; Committed Quantity ROQ 120 Raw Order Quantity = Order Up to Level &ndash; Inventory Position SOQ 120 Suggested Order Quantity = Raw Order Quantity + Raw Order Quantity Modifiers &nbsp; Implementation Flavors NA UIs and Entities The configuration UIs mentioned in this document are listed in the following table,&nbsp;along with information to&nbsp;navigate&nbsp;to the API documentation. UI Name Component Group Seed Data Present? Seed Data Profile &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Services The&nbsp;APIs listed in the following table are referenced in this document. Refer to the API documentation for additional details on&nbsp;each service. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; SOQ Suggested Order Quantity Inventory Optimization &nbsp; {{url}}/ai-inventoryoptimization/api/ai-inventoryoptimization/suggestedOrderLine/search Related Articles Break Point PricingBatch UpdateHub and SpokeConstrained Supply AllocationPlanogramBulk Update Item Location DeactivationMaximum Economic Order Cycle DaysCalendar Build Pattern and ExceptionLead Time ForecastingReplenishment - OverviewNew Store ModelingOrder Group