# South Korea

**Permalink:** southkorea
**Content Length:** 8,557 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:35:54.851356

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Point of Sale&rsaquo;&rsaquo;POS Classic Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;POS Classic Fiscalization and Globalization ››South Korea &nbsp; South Korea Tax ConfigurationCash ReceiptsCash Receipt processing and legal requirementCash Receipt - Void and ReturnsServices South Korea is a non-fiscal country. There are no specific laws or other regulations specifically dedicated to fiscalization. The main state institution engaged in tax topics is National Tax Service. However, the way of handling transactions and issuing cash receipts can be detailed from the explanations provided in the sections below. Language:&nbsp;Korean is the official and national language of South Korea. Although there are no explicit legal requirements,&nbsp;it is assumed that the POS application should support Korean, but English mode can be implemented, as well. As per the receipts themselves, it is also expected that they are presented in Korean, but English could be an addition. The locale can be configured as detailed on the localization configuration&nbsp;guide. Currency: The South&nbsp;Korean official currency is the South Korean won, officially the Korean Republic won, represented as the currency code&nbsp;KRW. The currency denomination can be configured as detailed on the localization configuration&nbsp;guide.&nbsp; Tax Configuration A person who engages in the supply of goods or services independently in the course of business, whether or not for profit, is liable to Value Added Tax.&nbsp; A person who&nbsp;starts a business shall register the required particulars of each business place within twenty days from the business commencement date. The particulars may be registered before the business commencement date. Then the tax office having jurisdiction over the business place of the trader shall issue a business registration certificate to the trader concerned. The standard VAT rate for South Korea&nbsp;is 10%. VAT Tax Configuration:&nbsp;The information about configuring the country&nbsp;as VAT is&nbsp;detailed on the localization configuration&nbsp;guide. Cash Receipts There is no obligation to use specific equipment, hardware or software when creating, processing transactions and/or issuing receipts to customers.&nbsp;There is only an obligation of cash receipt, where&nbsp;retailers are required to install a card payment terminal for processing of cash receipts which are sent to the NTS via VAN &quot;Value Added Network&quot; service providers. Only for cash receipts, under certain conditions, transaction data is sent to NTS via certified service providers.&nbsp;&ldquo;Cash receipt sticker&rdquo; must be attached to the door of the store. When the buyer requests a cash receipt after making a payment in cash, the retailer must not refuse to issue a cash receipt or issue it falsely. When the VAN provider sends the transaction information to NTS, NTS records it on the Hometax website ( https://www.hometax.go.kr ) where retailers and consumers can check the transaction details. All cash payments of KRW 1 or more are included in the cash receipt obligation. Customers must register a phone number or a card on the Hometax website. For the completion of the cash receipt, the&nbsp;customer needs to provide data such as: Customer info such as resident ID, name, address etc Cell phone number NTS-issued Cash Receipt Card etc. Receipt Configuration: Configuring receipts specific for a country&nbsp;is&nbsp;detailed on the localization configuration&nbsp;guide. Cash Receipt processing and legal requirement The receipt itself should include standard details such as date, time, amount of the transaction, payment details, etc. Nevertheless, both card and cash transactions are sent to the card payment terminal provider, but only the cash transactions are further sent to NTS. The VAN service provider provides the card terminal which is certified by the NTS for processing of cash transactions. The retailer should have&nbsp;a relationship with the VAN service provider. Cash receipts should be sent to the VAN service provider in real time, but VAN sends the transaction data once or several times per day. The validation comes from the VAN service provider, but there is no specific label legally required to be presented on the receipt itself. What the validation actually looks like depends on the integration with a specific provider, since the law does not impose any specific requirements. Cash Receipt - Void and Returns Post Voids: Korean legislation does not define specific obligations when it comes to processing of post voids. In case of complete cancellation of a transaction, the void should be logged. On the other hand, it is much more common among merchants in practice to use a return/refund functionality, rather than post voids. Returns: When a customer is returning any goods/ service&nbsp;for which a cash receipt was issued originally, Retailers are required to cancel /refund the transaction through the POS (which is connected to VAN) and VAN will take care of voiding the cash receipt. Services There are no specific services exposed for South Korea localization.