# Spain

**Permalink:** spain
**Content Length:** 8,233 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:35:55.622896

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Point of Sale&rsaquo;&rsaquo;POS Classic Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;POS Classic Fiscalization and Globalization ››Spain Spain OverviewLanguageCurrencySII, Veri-Factu and Ticket BAITax ConfigurationReceipt ConfigurationServices Overview Spain is a non-fiscal country with some exceptions and consideration specifically of SII, Veri-Factu and Ticket BAI which are not applicable or should be handled outside of Manhattan Active&reg; Point of Sale product.&nbsp;Although there are no specific fiscalization requirements, there are certain rules and recommendations on VAT invoices/receipts and on keeping accounting records. However, the way of handling transactions and issuing receipts can be concluded from the explanations provided below. Language There are 4 official languages for Belgium. They are Spanish, Castilian Spanish, Galician&nbsp;and Basque. Different regions in Spain use one of these languages as the official language.&nbsp; Spain (Most of the Spain region) Castilian Spanish (Castile and Leon&nbsp;Region) Galician (Gelicia region) Basque (Basque region) Although there are no explicit legal requirements, it is assumed that the POS application should support one of these languages, and the language should be based on the region where the store is located. &nbsp;As per the receipts themselves, it is also expected that they are presented in one of these languages, depending on the region where the store is located.&nbsp; The locale can be configured as detailed in the&nbsp;localization configuration&nbsp;guide. Currency The official currency of Belgium is &quot;EURO&quot;. The official currency code (ISO currency standard) is &quot;EUR&quot;.&nbsp; The currency denomination can be configured as detailed in the&nbsp;localization configuration&nbsp;guide. SII, Veri-Factu and Ticket BAI SII stands for &quot;SuministroInmediatode Informaci&oacute;n&quot; means Immediate supply of information. This refers to Accounting information which needs to be sent to Spain&#39;s state tax agency.&nbsp;This is mandatory for taxpayers whose volume is over 6 million EUR in annual revenue. Veri-Factu stands for &quot;Verifiable Invoice Issuance Systems&quot;. It&nbsp;refers to&nbsp;the use of a certified billing system. This is&nbsp;in effect only from 01.-7.2025 and is applicable only if SII is not implemented by tax payers i.e. retailers whose revenue is less than 6 million. Ticket BAI:&nbsp;TicketBAIis a joint project of the three Provincial Treasuries and the Basque Government, whose objective is the implementation of a series of legal and technical obligations, which will imply that, as soon as it enters into force, all natural persons and legal entities that carry out economic activity must use billing software that complies with the technical requirements that are published. This is applicable only when retailer revenue is over 10 million and 75% of revenue comes from the Basque region. Tax Configuration Value Added Tax (VAT) is a tax on sales. The VAT payer, who must previously register for VAT with the&nbsp;Tax Administration, charges his customers a tax proportional to the price of the goods sold&nbsp;for the services rendered. This tax must be paid by the taxpayer to the tax authority&nbsp;after deduction of the VAT charged to him by his own suppliers (input tax). Natural or legal persons are subject to VAT if they independently and regularly carry out an economic activity of any kind, regardless of the purpose or the results of this activity and the place of execution.&nbsp; VAT&nbsp;Rates: VAT rates are categorized into buckets below. *&nbsp; Standard/Normal tax rate 21% Reduced tax&nbsp;rate: 10% Reduced tax rate: 4% Zero: 0% VAT Tax Configuration:&nbsp;The information about configuring the country&nbsp;as VAT is&nbsp;detailed in the&nbsp;localization configuration&nbsp;guide. Receipt Configuration A receipt (also refered as Invoices)&nbsp;is a conclusive document that confirms that payment has been made for a service/goods.&nbsp; The information below is essentially included in the standard Manhattan Active &reg; Point of Sale receipt but retailers doing business in Spain should verify and customize receipt format if needed for their business.&nbsp; A generated receipt needs to include: Company information Date and time of issue Serial number - unique and sequential Cash register number Store id Customer Information Total amount paid including VAT VAT breakdown Discounts Item description Quantity Additionally, best practice is also to include items. All additional information such as pictures, barcodes, QR codes, promotional messages, etc. can be included as there are no legal requirements. Receipt Configuration: Configuring receipts specific for a country&nbsp;is&nbsp;detailed in the&nbsp;localization configuration&nbsp;guide. Services There are no specific services exposed for Belgium localization. &nbsp; &nbsp; * The fiscal guidelines and numbers (annual turn over, tax rates)&nbsp;are as of Jan-2024, which might be subjected to change as per local laws.