# Staging Process

**Permalink:** staging-process
**Content Length:** 15,824 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:36:16.259029

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Inventory & Fulfillment&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Order Fulfillment&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Staging ››Staging Process Staging Process InitiationPickup ordersSearch Options for Staging ListSearch By Picklist&nbsp;Search By Order&nbsp;Search By Item&nbsp;Ship-to-store ordersStagingUpdatesServices&nbsp; The staging process enables&nbsp;the associate&nbsp;to systematically locate customer pickup or ship-to-store orders prior to confirm pickup. When a customer arrives to pick the order, the staging location(s)&nbsp;where the inventory resides are presented to the associate to aid in locating the order. This can help&nbsp;reduce&nbsp;pickup transaction times and improve&nbsp;customer service. Staging is relatively easier to implement as&nbsp;it does not require locations to&nbsp;be predefined in the system. Depending on the retailer&#39;s needs, staging locations can follow relatively simple (i.e., &quot;Behind counter 1&quot;) or complex naming conventions&nbsp;and can exist in barcoded&nbsp;or human readable formats. Staging is an optional process for both pickup and ship-to-store orders. To know more on the&nbsp;staging activity during offline mode, please refer to the&nbsp;Store Offline Support&nbsp;page. Initiation For pickup orders, associates can perform staging during picking&nbsp;or later using the Stage Pickups menu option. For ship to store orders, staging can be done during receiving&nbsp;or later using the Stage Pickups menu option. Through staging, the associate captures the staging location&nbsp;of the package/order. Pickup orders Staging for pickup orders&nbsp;is initiated from the list of ready to stage orders. If staging is not done immediately after Picking,&nbsp;the store associates can initiate staging from the ready to stage order list. Alternatively, one of the following search criteria can be used&nbsp;to lookup order(s) to stage: PicklistId OrderId FulfillmentId ItemId The staging list for pickup orders is displayed based on the parameter &quot;Stage Pickup - Display all fulfillments ready for staging&quot;. Refer to&nbsp;Staging Configuration. Ready to stage orders list displays pickup orders in &quot;Picked&quot; status. &quot;Not staged&quot; orders are listed first in the ascending order of picked date and time, followed by staged orders&nbsp;in descending order of picked date and time. Staged orders are displayed so that the staging location can be changed if needed. The same sorting logic is applicable to the ready-to-stage list when the&nbsp;pick-to-slot parameter &quot;Pick to&nbsp;slot for pickups&nbsp;&quot; is turned on. Refer to&nbsp;Picking Configuration. Picker&#39;s first & last names&nbsp;are&nbsp;also available on the list for each order. If the&nbsp;first name and/or the&nbsp;last name&nbsp;is/are&nbsp;not&nbsp;configured, then the userId is displayed. Associate can select the order from the list and stage. &quot;listFulfillmentsForStaging&quot;&nbsp; API is used to list pickup orders for staging. Print all pickup slips option is available after the search criterion is applied.&nbsp;Print all pickup slips option is controlled by permission. Since the staging process is optional for pickup orders, associates can choose to stage some or all of the picked orders, or can&nbsp;choose not to stage any orders. Search Options for Staging List Search can be performed by&nbsp;entering or scanning the Item / Item&nbsp;barcode, OrderId, Fulfillment Id or PicklistId. OrderId is available on the pickup slip, so if the pickup slip is already printed, the associate can&nbsp;enter the&nbsp;OrderId to stage.&nbsp; Search By Picklist&nbsp; For pickup orders, staging&nbsp;can be&nbsp;initiated at the picklist&nbsp;level. Once a picklist is selected,&nbsp;associates&nbsp;can stage the&nbsp;orders on the picklist. This is achieved with the&nbsp;List&nbsp;Fulfillments&nbsp;for Staging&nbsp;service, which returns a list of orders on the picklist. Once a list of orders is returned, associates perform staging for each order they would like to stage.&nbsp;The&nbsp;picklist&nbsp;must be completed&nbsp;for the picklist orders to be eligible for staging.&nbsp;If the&nbsp;picklist&nbsp;is slotted, the slot&nbsp;information&nbsp;is also presented to the associate. Associates can immediately&nbsp;stage orders as picking is completed for a picklist, or can choose to stage orders for the picklist at a later time. Since the staging process is optional for pickup orders, associates can choose to stage some or all of the orders on a picklist, or can&nbsp;choose not to stage any orders on the picklist. If&nbsp;the &quot;Stage Pickup - Display all fulfillments ready for staging&quot; parameter is turned off,&nbsp;PicklistId is needed to start the staging process if staging is not done immediately after Picking through the interstitial. Search By Order&nbsp; For pickup orders, staging can be initiated at the order or&nbsp;fulfillment level. Associates&nbsp;can search for&nbsp;the order or fulfillment from the ready-to-stage list and stage. This is achieved with the&nbsp;List&nbsp;Fulfillments&nbsp;for Staging&nbsp;service, which returns the corresponding fulfillment(s),&nbsp;if valid for staging. Once the fulfillment(s)&nbsp;are&nbsp;returned, associates can perform staging.&nbsp;If the&nbsp;fulfillment(s)&nbsp;are slotted, the slot&nbsp;information&nbsp;is also presented to the associate. If a valid fulfillment is not returned, then the appropriate message is displayed.&nbsp; Associates can immediately&nbsp;stage&nbsp;an&nbsp;order&nbsp;as&nbsp;soon as&nbsp;picking is completed, or can choose to stage&nbsp;at a later time. Search By Item&nbsp; For pickup orders, staging can be initiated at the Item level. Associates&nbsp;can search for&nbsp;the orders containing&nbsp;a particular&nbsp;item,&nbsp;from a ready-to-stage list and stage. This is achieved with the&nbsp;List&nbsp;Fulfillments&nbsp;for Staging&nbsp;service, which returns the order(s) containing the item, if valid for staging. Once the orders are&nbsp;returned, associates can perform staging with one order at a time.&nbsp;If the&nbsp;orders are&nbsp;slotted, the slot&nbsp;information&nbsp;is also presented to the associate.&nbsp;If a valid order is not returned, then the appropriate message is displayed. Associates can immediately&nbsp;stage&nbsp;an&nbsp;order&nbsp;as&nbsp;soon as&nbsp;picking is completed, or can choose to stage orders&nbsp;at a later time based on item search.&nbsp; Ship-to-store orders For ship-to-store orders, staging is initiated at the package level. Associates may invoke staging from the receiving UI, or can choose to stage the package at a later time after receiving has occurred. Staging screen lists all the pickup fulfillments that are not yet picked up.&nbsp;If an associate chooses to stage the ship-to-store order from the&nbsp;receiving interstitial screen,&nbsp;the list of orders for which a package was just received is&nbsp;displayed to the user to facilitate staging.&nbsp;Refer to the&nbsp;Receiving process guide&nbsp;for additional information.&nbsp;A complete list of ready-to-stage ship-to-store pickup fulfillments can also be accessed anytime as needed. Alternatively, based on the parameter &quot;Stage Ship to store - Display all fulfillments ready for staging&quot;, store associate can view the ready-to-stage ship-to-store pickup fulfillments list. This list also displays pickup leg fulfillments in &quot;Created&quot; status. Refer to&nbsp;Staging Configuration&nbsp;for more details about the parameter.&nbsp;&quot;Not staged&quot; orders are displayed first in the ascending order of received date and time (i.e.&nbsp;Picked date and time updated on Fulfillment Audit), followed by &quot;Staged&quot; orders in the desending order of received date and time. Ship to store pickup fulfillments can be staged from the list or a specific order can be searched using PackageId. The scanned package and other packages belonging to the same pickup fulfillment must be in &#39;Received&#39; status&nbsp;to stage the package. Fulfillment details are shown to the associate. When another package for the same pickup fulfillment is scanned, any existing staging&nbsp;locations are also displayed to help the associates stage them at the same place if possible. The scanned package and other packages belonging to the same pickup fulfillment must be in &#39;Received&#39; status&nbsp;to stage the package. Fulfillment details are shown to the associate. When another package for the same pickup fulfillment is scanned, any existing staging&nbsp;locations are also displayed to help the associates stage them at the same place if possible. Staging For both pickup and ship-to-store orders, the associate&nbsp;enters one or more staging locations&nbsp;for the selected order. Multiple locations can be specified for an order&nbsp;if the inventory must be placed in multiple locations. Multiple orders can also be staged in the same staging location. Once staged, associates&nbsp;can change&nbsp;the staging location(s) assigned to an order&nbsp;prior to customer pickup, provided the Picklist /Package is known for pickup / ship-to-store fulfillments respectively. Note: If the order has not been staged, at&nbsp;least 1 location is required to enable the &#39;Submit&#39; button. Updates The Update Fulfillment service (for pickup orders) or Stage Ship-to-Store Orders&nbsp;service (for ship-to-store orders)&nbsp;updates the staging location(s) for the fulfillment. The fulfillment status is not updated by the staging process. Services&nbsp; The&nbsp;APIs listed in the following table are referenced in this document. Refer to the API documentation for additional details on&nbsp;each service. Service Component Group Service Endpoint List Fulfillments for Staging Fulfillment fulfillment-list-controller fulfillment/api/fulfillment/fulfillment/listFulfillmentsForStaging List Fulfillments for Staging (Ship to Store orders) Fulfillment fulfillment-list-controller fulfillment/api/fulfillment/fulfillment/listFulfillmentsForStagingForShipToStore Update Fulfillment Fulfillment Fulfillment Services fulfillment/api/fulfillment/fulfillment/fulfillmentId/{fulfillmentId} Stage Ship to Store Orders Fulfillment fulfillment-process-controller fulfillment/api/fulfillment/fulfillment/stage/shipToStore Stage Ship to Store Orders (Interstitial flow after receiving) Fulfillment fulfillment-list-controller fulfillment/api/fulfillment/fulfillment/getPickupFulfillmentsForStaging &nbsp; &nbsp;