# Store - Home Screen Customization

**Permalink:** store-app-customization
**Content Length:** 5,005 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:39:12.459071

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Administrator Tools&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store ››Store - Home Screen Customization Home Screen Customization &nbsp; OverviewHome Screen CustomizationConfigurationRecommendations Overview Manhattan Active Omni Store&nbsp;provides an&nbsp;ability to customize the&nbsp;background image on the Home screen of the application. Retailers can configure a custom image to be displayed as the home screen&nbsp;background for both the tablet and the hand-held form factor.&nbsp;This capability is available across all the platforms,&nbsp;which include iOS, Android, Windows devices and Web&nbsp;Browsers.&nbsp; Home Screen Customization Home screen is the landing screen after the user logs in. The background image can be customized to use a custom image by configuring the image URL in Store Common Configuration. We have 2 separate configurations to support different images for tablet vs hand-held form factor as the orientation of these form factors is different. Select the image that you would like to use, load it&nbsp;to a CDN like Cloudinary. It is important that the stored image is&nbsp;web-accessible and only authorized parties have the ability to modify it. Once the image is loaded to the network, the image URL path can be configured for both tablet and handheld form factor in the respective&nbsp;Store Common Configuration. The background image selection to load it on a tablet or hand-held form factor should be chosen correctly.&nbsp;The resolution/aspect ratio of the image should be considered not to exceed the maximum resolution of the&nbsp;devices/registers&nbsp;being used.&nbsp;For example, the recommended image choice for a full-sized tablet screen (1920x1080) is&nbsp;1080p.&nbsp;For handheld devices, the resolution&nbsp;depends on the devices being used. Ideally, for handheld devices in the case of a fixed register, the recommended resolution is 1080x1920. If the URLs are not configured, the system will load the image that is deployed as part of the build or default to the base background image. Store Application crops&nbsp;the images if the screen size is smaller than the configured background image. Make sure that your brand/logo information is more centered for a better display. Configuration Configurations are available in&nbsp;the Store&#39;s common configuration UI. Tablet form factor:&nbsp; Configuration Name:&nbsp;Background Image URL for Tablet Form Enter the image url in the text box. NOTE: The tablet form factor includes both iPad, i.e mobile register&nbsp;and fixed registers. Hand-held form factor: Configuration Name:&nbsp;Background Image URL for Handheld&nbsp;Form Enter the image url in the text box. Recommendations The image should be optimized before uploading it to CDN. Tools like TinyPNG (which also works for JPGs) can be used for image optimization. It is always recommended to use either JPG or PNG format of images for simplicity as these are standard web format. For any image modification, it is recommended to load the new image with a different filename and&nbsp;mention them in the configuration&nbsp;rather than reusing the same filename for a different image. A good rule of thumb is to make sure the images are below 1MB and closer to 200KB in size. Customization on gradient lines can be accomplished on custom themes.