# Store IT Process

**Permalink:** store-it-dashboard-process
**Content Length:** 16,327 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:36:36.741260

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Common ››Store IT Process Store IT Health Dashboard Store IT Health DashboardConfiguring Store IT Health DashboardAccessing Store IT Health DashboardStore IT Health Dashboard OverviewChain OverviewStore OverviewStore DetailGoogle Map on IT Health DashboardMilestones Configuring Store IT Health Dashboard A new Boolean setting called &ldquo;Enable Store Health Dashboard&rdquo; will be added to the Store Common Config in both OmniFacade and MUP.&nbsp; In addition, to view the IT Health Dashboard, the user must have the following grants: In OmniFacade omui::omuifacade::storehealthdashboard::view. In MUP, omui::menu::storeHealthDashboard omui::facade::storeHealthDashboard omui::devicemanagement::menu::storeHealthSummary omui::devicemanagement::menu::storeHealthSummaryDetail Accessing Store IT Health Dashboard To access the Store&nbsp;IT Health&nbsp;dashboard, do the following: Open the OmniFacade Hamburger menu and navigate to the &quot;Store Health Dashboard&quot; option. You will be directed to the main&nbsp;screen that provides an overview of the total number of stores encountering outages, issues or those that are fully functional without issues. Store IT Health Dashboard Overview The Store&nbsp;Health&nbsp;dashboard enables the user to determine which stores are having outages or experiencing issues in four categories: item entry, customer entry, payment and receipt printing.&nbsp;The information will be updated every 5 minutes based upon a scheduler. The dashboard will be divided into three screens: Chain Overview Store Overview Store Detail Note: Each screen will have a toolbar with View, Help, Account and Refresh options.&nbsp;&nbsp;This is an existing MUP functionality. Chain Overview When the customer first enters the Store Health Dashboard, there will be&nbsp;three boxes with the total number of stores and their statuses. The status are: Fully operational - those stores that have 0% issues. Experiencing Issues - those stores that have greater than 0% and less than 5% (hard-coded in phase 1) issues for any of the milestones mentioned in the Milestones section. Outages - those stores that have 5% (hard-coded in phase 1) or more issues for any of the milestones mentioned in the Milestones section. The View All option will display the Store Overview screen with each store that has one or more categories (item entry, customer entry, payment and receipt) that fall into the selected status (outage, issues, operational).&nbsp;&nbsp; If a store has both outages and experiencing issues, milestones ( such as payment is critical and the customer is experiencing issues), the store will only be counted in the outages total. Store Overview Those stores in the selected status (outage, issues, operational) will be displayed in ascending order by store number when the View All option is selected from the Chain Overview screen.&nbsp;&nbsp;Each milestone (item entry, customer entry, payment and receipt) will have its own column and status (outage, issues, operational). The store will be provided as a hyperlink. When&nbsp;selected, it will display the store detail screen listing the store&#39;s issues over the last 24 hours.&nbsp; Store Detail When selecting a specific store from the Store Overview screen, the number of issues experienced in the last 24 hours and last time the data was loaded will be displayed on the screen.&nbsp; The issues and their status will be displayed in descending order based upon last run time.&nbsp;&nbsp; A milestone will only be displayed once when it is first detected.&nbsp; Each reoccurrence of the milestone will not be displayed.&nbsp; For example, if the payment milestone becomes critical at 10am, it will be denoted in the table; however, the next time the report is run at 10:05, a new entry for the payment critical status will NOT be written. This will be so the user can determine when the issue started without scrolling through multiple entries. Google Map on IT Health Dashboard The Store Health Dashboard enables the user to view the different store locations on Google Maps. The Google API key is configured in the KV store under the store fa&ccedil;ade component. POS reuses the same key that is used on the map on the Pick-up At Store screen. In the map view, below are the three statuses that are&nbsp;displayed as marker pins on the Google Map: Green for fully operational Yellow when it&rsquo;s experiencing issues Red when status is critical The markers on the Google map display the store name and location. Additionally, the markers will also display the other hardcoded details under specific status as mentioned below: Overall Status Add Customer Status Add Item Status Add Payment Status Receipt Generated Status The application will display the Google Map Markers for all the store locations by default. Users&nbsp;can select specific filters - Critical, Experiencing Issues and Fully Operational to display the specific stores under the mentioned statuses.&nbsp;Clear Filters will reset the map and show all the markers. Note:&nbsp;If the retailers do not have the license to the Google Map, the map view will not load in the Store Health Dashboard screen. Users will see a blank section and just the 3 statuses mentioned above.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Milestones Milestone Starts When Ends When Status Notes itemAdded First item is entered in the cart &nbsp; Complete Payment button is selected on Cart screen &nbsp; Success: User is on the Order Summary screen Failure: If updatereadyfortender API fails or when Scheduler runs Cart is still in progress In Progress: User still in cart Counts as failure: Crashes count as failure. Suspends, voids, quotes,auto-logouts,lock screen transactions Abandoned carts (i.e. using as price check) Does NOT count as failure: Item is not added to cart (i.e&nbsp;500 error, item not on file). Going back to the cart will NOT restart milestone. customerAdded Customer is activated&nbsp; Customer is successfully saved &nbsp; Success: Customer added to order Failure: Customer not added to order after information is saved. In Progress: Customer deactivated (i.e. unclick activate button). Assumes order has already begun (I.e. customer not added to order before any items). paymentAdded Complete payment button is selected on Cart screen &nbsp; Receipt screen (confirm order api) is displayed &nbsp; Success: User on Receipt screen Failure: Any tender API failure In Progress: User still on order summary screen because due to dead end (i.e. need to kill app) Individual payment failures (i.e. payment declined, payment timeouts) do count as failures unless other tender is used and balance goes to 0. receiptPrinted User selects Print Receipt &nbsp; Receipt toast message is displayed. &nbsp; Success: &ldquo;Print Receipt Success&rdquo; toast message displayed. Failure: &ldquo;Print Receipt Failed&rdquo; toast message displayed. In Progress: Print button selected but printer not found, app crash, dead end. Reprint receipt included. Email receipt only and email receipt failure will NOT be counted in milestone. networkStatus The first item is entered into the cart Receipt toast message is displayed Success: When there is no network connectivity issue during the transaction. Failure:&nbsp;When there is any network connectivity issue during the transaction. &nbsp; Counts as failure: When the application is not able to connect to the network.&nbsp; Does NOT count as failure: Any other error (i.e. 500 error, item not on file.). &nbsp;