# View Store Inventory Configuration

**Permalink:** store-inventory-configuration
**Content Length:** 6,132 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:36:30.500871

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Inventory & Fulfillment&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Inventory Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;View Store Inventory ››View Store Inventory Configuration View Store Inventory Configuration Store DispositionATC ViewFind Inventory At Near By StoresGoogle API KeyRelated ConfigurationUIs and Entities This guide outlines the configuration required for viewing store inventory. Store Disposition Store disposition defines&nbsp;a characteristic of store inventory. For example, a store disposition called &quot;Display units&quot; could represent the inventory in the store which is used for display purposes. Since inventory records in the Inventory component&nbsp;are maintained based on the supply type, each store disposition is&nbsp;mapped to a particular supply type definition in the Inventory component.&nbsp; Note: To view store disposition on View inventory, on hand supply must be enabled for&nbsp;the linked supply type in the inventory supply type configuration. Note: A one-to-one mapping should exist between the store disposition and supply type definition. Store dispositions are not linked to the Inventory dispositions (in inventory component). If multiple store dispositions point to the same supply type, one of the store disposition will be picked on the UI. ATC View The ATC view that is specified in the Store Inventory Configuration UI is used to retrieve&nbsp;the available units for view inventory. Tip: The ATC view should include the supply types that are mapped to the store dispositions. It is recommended not to set any protection in the view to get all the units that are available to sell. Find Inventory At Near By Stores This parameter in the Store Inventory Parameters UI View Inventory holds configuration to turn on ability to find inventory at the near by stores. This parameter is turned off by default. Google API Key Set up the Google API key in the KV store to view the Google map and&nbsp;to display&nbsp;suggested results based on the input entered in the search bar on the Pickup at Store UI. &nbsp;KV Store property:&nbsp;config/com-manh-cp-storefacade/storecommon.googleAPIKey Related Configuration It is required for the following two configurations to be present for the Item Details to be displayed in the View Inventory: POS General Config POS Store Config UIs and Entities The configuration UIs/entities mentioned in this document are listed in the following table,&nbsp;along with information to&nbsp;navigate&nbsp;to the API documentation. UI Name Component Group Seed Data Present? Seed Data Profile Store Dispositions SIM StoreDisposition services Yes Base Store Inventory Configuration SIM StoreInventoryConfiguration services Yes Base &nbsp;