# Store Pickups Dashboard

**Permalink:** store-pickups-dashboard
**Content Length:** 17,591 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:36:51.836510

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Supply Chain Intelligence&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Supply Chain Intelligence - Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Dashboards ››Store Pickups Dashboard Store Pickups Dashboard OverviewMetricsVisualizationsUnits Picked via Curbside Vs BOPISFulfillment Cancellations by ReasonTotal Value of BOPIS Conversion/Pickup Extensions/Curbside PickupBOPIS Conversions to ShipmentBOPIS Conversions By Stores Overview Curbside and Buy Online and Pickup In-Store (BOPIS) options have gained popularity among customers in modern retail fulfillments. Both provide a convenient option for customers to buy products online and pick them up either from a designated point in the store (BOPIS) or a store associate hands over the order to the customer without them leaving their vehicle (Curbside). The dashboard captures data on store pickups for both curbside and BOPIS options. It offers an array of metrics and visualizations to display and assist with the data analysis for average wait time, the number of units picked up via BOPIS and curbside, the reasons for fulfillment cancellations, currency values, and additional information. Using this dashboard, you can analyze the operational performance by focusing on these pickup methods and take measures to fill any potential gaps.&nbsp;This also has a data range in the title bar which tells the range for which data is currently being displayed.&nbsp; You can access this dashboard&nbsp;in IBM Cognos by navigating to&nbsp;Team Content &gt; SCI Packaged Content &gt; Packaged Dashboards &gt; OMNI &gt;&nbsp; Self Service - Store Pickups Dashboard.&nbsp;The&nbsp;following sections provide more information in detail. &nbsp; Metrics The following table provides detailed information on the metrics used in this dashboard: Metrics Name Query Subject /&nbsp;Query Subject Item Description Avg Wait Time For Curbside (Mins) FUL_FULFILLMENT /&nbsp;SHIPPED_DATE, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; PICKUP_ARRIVAL_DATE_TIME, DELIVERY_METHOD_SUB_TYPE&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; MAX_FULFILLMENT_STATUS_ID This metrics highlights the average wait time in minutes between the shipped date and pickup arrival date for Curbside. Avg Wait Time Utilizing On The Way (Mins) FUL_FULFILLMENT /&nbsp;SHIPPED_DATE, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; PICKUP_ARRIVAL_DATE_TIME, DELIVERY_METHOD_SUB_TYPE IS_CUSTOMER_ON_THE_WAY This metric provides the average wait time in minutes&nbsp;between the shipping date and the pickup arrival date for customers using the On The Way feature. Avg Wait Time Not Utilizing On The Way (Mins) FUL_FULFILLMENT /&nbsp;SHIPPED_DATE, &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;PICKUP_ARRIVAL_DATE_TIME, DELIVERY_METHOD_SUB_TYPE IS_CUSTOMER_ON_THE_WAY This metric provides the average wait time in minutes&nbsp;between the shipping date and the pickup arrival date for customers not using the On The Way feature. Avg No. of Times Pickup Extended ORD_ORDER, ORD_ORDER_LINE ORDER_LINE_ADDITIONAL, FUL_FULFILLMENT_LINE FUL_FULFILLMENT /&nbsp;PICKUP_EXP_DATE_UPDATE_COUNT DELIVERY_METHOD_ID This metric provides the average number of times the store pickup time has been extended. % BOPIS Qty with Pickup extended ORD_ORDER_LINE, ORDER_LINE_ADDITIONAL /&nbsp;QUANTITY, DELIVERY_METHOD PICKUP_EXP_DATE_UPDATE_COUNT This metric highlights the total BOPIS quantity for which the pickup is extended.&nbsp; Units Converted from BOPIS to Shipment ORD_ORDER, ORD_ORDER_LINE, ORDER_LINE_ADDITIONAL /&nbsp; MAX_FULFILLMENT_STATUS_ID, QUANTITY, PRIOR_DELIVERY_METHOD This metric highlights the number of units which customers / store associates convert from a BOPIS order to shipment. The orders in such scenarios are shipped to the customer locations rather than being picked up at the store. Count Of Pickup Window Extended ORD_ORDER, ORD_ORDER_LINE ORDER_LINE_ADDITIONAL, FUL_FULFILLMENT_LINE FUL_FULFILLMENT /&nbsp;PICKUP_EXP_DATE_UPDATE_COUNT DELIVERY_METHOD_ID This metric provides the number of times customers extend the pickup window date. Avg No. of Days Until Pickup&nbsp; FUL_FULFILLMENT_AUDIT, FUL_FULFILLMENT /&nbsp;PICKED_UP_DATE, PICKED_DATE, DELIVERY_METHOD_ID This metric provides the average number of days available until the pickup date. &nbsp; &nbsp; Visualizations This dashboard contains a combination of the graphs, column charts, pie charts, and tabular representation of different metrics as part of this dashboard. The subsequent sections provide more information about these visualizations. &nbsp; Units Picked via Curbside Vs BOPIS This section contains two visualizations to support and analyze the number of units picked and unit picked% in&nbsp;stores for Curbside and BOPIS delivery methods. Units Picked This column chart compares the number of units picked through Curbside and BOPIS methods. The x-axis represents these delivery method types, and the y-axis the number of units. Using this visualization, you can analyze the popularity of these method types and take measures to improve their fulfillment&nbsp;performance. Units Picked Percentage This column chart provides the percentage of units picked via Curbside and BOPIS methods.&nbsp;The x-axis represents these delivery method types, and the y-axis the percentage of units picked. Fulfillment Cancellations by Reason Order fulfillment might be cancelled because the inventory is unavailable in the store, the customer cancels it from their side, or the customer does not pick up the product. This visualization depicts the trend of these reasons and helps you analyze maximum number of times fulfillments get cancelled and their causes. It primarily focuses on Customer Cancellations (Cancel Reason ID: 1000), Customer No Show (Cancel Reason ID: 2000), and Inventory Unavailable (Cancel Reason ID: 3000) cancel reasons. The x-axis represents the cancellation reasons, and the y-axis is the count of occurrences of these reasons. Note: If you have configured custom cancel reasons apart from the three default reasons, this dashboard might display the data for them because it picks values from the database. &nbsp; Total Value of BOPIS Conversion/Pickup Extensions/Curbside Pickup This header includes a host of metrics that provide the currency value in Dollars and Euro for these two pickup methods. The following table provides more information: Metric Name Description Total Value of BOPIS Conversion This metric displays the currency code and corresponding currency value for order fulfillment converted to the BOPIS pickup method.&nbsp; Total Value of Pickup Extensions This metric displays the currency code and corresponding currency value for order fulfillment for which the pickup window is extended. Total Value of Curbside Pickup This metric displays the&nbsp;currency code and corresponding currency value for order fulfillment with the BOPIS pickup method.&nbsp; &nbsp; BOPIS Conversions to Shipment Instead of picking up an order from the store, the customers can get it shipped to their address. They can do so through the Digital Self-Service feature in the Manhattan Active&reg; Omni. Additionally, store associates can convert BOPIS or Curbside orders by shipping them to the customer location if they cannot pick up their items or in case the store shorts the items due to unavailability of the inventory. The BOPIS Conversion to Shipment displays this information in a Pie chart capturing the count of fulfillments by Store Shorts and Customer Initiated.&nbsp; BOPIS Conversions By Stores This tabular visualization lists stores and their rate of fulfillment that is converted from BOPIS to shipments.&nbsp;Using this data, you can take measures to improve the BOPIS service for the stores which have higher conversion rates.