# Store - Device & Peripheral Policy

**Permalink:** stores-hw-policy
**Path:** Administrator Tools/Store/Store - Device &amp; Peripheral Policy
**Content Length:** 28,534 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:11:36.657543

---

Home ››Administrator Tools››Store ››Store - Device & Peripheral Policy Stores Device & Peripheral policy Stores Device & Peripheral policyDevice support policyCertified DevicesUpcoming Device DeprecationDeprecated DevicesWindows device specificationsPeripheral support policySupported PeripheralsFirmware Version InformationNetwork Bandwidth Recommendation for Active StoreEdge Server Hardware Minimum Requirements (Classic POS)Zebra DataWedge Configuration Manhattan is committed to delivering innovative solutions that leverage the latest tools and technologies to keep up with advancement and meet customer needs effectively. As part of this commitment, we maintain a rigorous validation process for our Manhattan Active® Store application, ensuring seamless compatibility with the latest operating system (OS) versions across a comprehensive set of devices and peripherals. This validation process guarantees a secure and reliable experience for our customers and end users. Device support policy The Store application undergoes rigorous validation and is fully supported on all three platforms—Apple, Android (Zebra Android), and Windows—ensuring seamless functionality and reliability across a variety of devices. We support the Store application across a comprehensive range of certified devices for each platform. To ensure compatibility, devices must be running one of the latest three major OS versions (current, current - 1, current - 2). Additionally, we support the last 12 minor releases within each major OS version. Each vendor typically releases a major OS version annually, usually in the third quarter. Our validation process promptly includes the newest OS while removing the oldest (discontinued) version to maintain support for the latest three. For Apple releases, Manhattan announces certification of new iOS/iPadOS versions within 4-6 weeks of Apple GA. For Zebra Android devices, the release of a new OS is determined by Zebra, typically one year after the general Android release. To ensure smooth transitions for our customers, we offer a 12-month grace period of continued support for the discontinued OS version (current - 3) before it becomes fully unsupported. This approach allows customers time to adapt to new technologies while maintaining reliable support throughout the transition period. Platform Supported OS version Deprecated OS version & extended support Apple Current, Current - 1, Current - 2 major OS versions The last 12 months of minor releases for each major OS version. Current - 3 and its minor releases Extended support for the grace period of 12 months Zebra Android Microsoft Windows In the Apple ecosystem, we manage and support all devices under a unified Apple platform category, encompassing both phone and tablet form factors. Similarly, for Zebra devices, all models, including phone and tablet form factors, are grouped under the Zebra Android platform. For Windows OS, all machines and devices are grouped under the Microsoft Windows platform, encompassing both Windows 10 and 11 OS categories. Certified Devices Outlined below is the curated roster of certified devices, along with the latest three supported operating systems under each platform. Typically, this page will be refreshed during the fourth quarter of the year. Devices whose OS version falls below the minimum supported version (current - 2) are deprecated and listed in the deprecated section for clarity and reference. Platform Devices Supported OS version Apple2 iPhone 16/16 Plus/16 Pro/16 Pro Max, iPhone 15/15 Plus/15 Pro/15 Pro Max, iPhone 14/14 Plus/14 Pro/14 Pro Max, iPhone 13/13 Mini/13 Pro/13 Pro Max, iPhone 12/12 Mini/12 Pro/12 Pro Max, iPhone 11/11 Pro/11 Pro Max, iPhone X/XR/XS, iPhone 8/8 Plus, iPhone SE 3rd gen, iPhone SE 2nd gen iPad Mini 6th gen, 5th gen iPad 10th gen, 9th gen, 8th gen, 7th gen, 6th gen, 5th gen iPad Air 6th gen , 5th gen, 4th gen, 3rd gen iPad Pro 7th gen, 6th gen, 5th gen, 4th gen, 3rd gen, 2nd gen, 1st  gen iOS/iPadOS 18, 17, 16 Android (Zebra Android)1, 6 TC52X, TC52, TC57 ET51 Zebra Android 14, 13, 11 3 See Android 13 data loss prevention steps 4 Android system navigation setting Microsoft Windows Windows 10 - Refer "Windows device specifications" 22H2, 21H2, 20H2 5 See supported Windows editions Windows 11 - Refer "Windows device specifications" 24H2, 23H2, 22H2 5 See supported Windows editions Manhattan guarantees support for the devices listed on the certified devices and does not provide support for any other devices. ¹ For Android devices, in order for the login flow to work correctly: 1) The Chrome or Firefox browser must be installed on the device as the Safari-View-Controller plug-in requires it. 2) If you are using IDP based authentication and if the IDP uses basic Windows (POPUP) based authentication, only Firefox can be used. ² Stage Manager is not certified for iPadOS. 3 Note that additional steps are required when upgrading to Android 13 to avoid loss of data in apps including the Store app. Refer to Zebra's documentation for more information on the migration steps to follow which include installing a migration backup utility and running it prior to upgrade. 4 For Android devices, ensure the navigation setting is configured to "3-button navigation" (Settings → Gestures → System navigation → 3 Button Navigation) to enable the proper overlay of essential system functions, including the Home, Recent Apps, and Back buttons at the bottom of the screen. This is the default setting on Zebra Android devices. 5 The supported editions of Windows OS include Windows IoT Enterprise and Windows Desktop editions. Limited support is provided for Windows LTSC (Long-Term Servicing Channel) versions, with a maximum support duration of 5 years from the release date. 6 The Android OS back button is not supported in the Store app. Minimum Resolution for Iris: Handheld form factors =--- Minimum is 576 pixels Desktop form factors - Minimum width is 1024 pixels Upcoming Device Deprecation Operating System Device OS version Deprecation Date End of Support Apple OS iPad Pro 1st  gen iPadOS 16 Oct 3, 2025 Oct 2, 2026 Apple OS iPhone 8/ iPhone 8 Plus iOS 16 Oct 3, 2025 Oct 2, 2026 Apple OS iPhone X iOS16 Oct 3, 2025 Oct 2, 2026 Important Notes: To ensure optimal performance and support, customers are advised to avoid procuring any devices listed in the "Upcoming Device Deprecation" section during the sales cycle, as acquiring these devices may lead to compatibility issues and reduced support in the near future. Before current devices are deprecated, customers should transition to one of "certified devices" to maintain effective operations and support. During this extended support period, devices in the upcoming deprecation list may receive limited support, particularly if certain features are constrained by third-party software capabilities or OS dependencies. Deprecated Devices Operating System Device OS version Deprecation Date End of Support Apple OS iPad Air 2nd gen iPadOS 15 Oct 4, 2024 Oct 5, 2025 Apple OS iPad Mini 4th gen iPadOS 15 Oct 4, 2024 Oct 5, 2025 Apple OS iPod Touch 7th gen iOS 15 Oct 4, 2024 Oct 5, 2025 Apple OS iPhone 7/7 Plus iOS 15 Oct 4, 2024 Oct 5, 2025 Apple OS iPhone 8/8 Plus iOS 15 Oct 4, 2024 Oct 5, 2025 Zebra Android TC51 / TC56 Android 8 Jan 5, 2024 Jan 4, 2025 Apple OS iPod Touch 6 iOS 12 Jan 7, 2022 Jan 6, 2023 Apple OS iPhone 6 iOS 12 Jan 7, 2022 Jan 6, 2023 Apple OS iPad Air (1st gen) iOS 12 Jan 7, 2022 Jan 6, 2023 Windows device specifications Below are the minimum POS Windows device specifications. Device Usage Minimum CPU Minimum RAM Minimum Hard Disk required for Store apps Comments SIF & POS i5 or equivalent 16GB N/A Edge Server only * classic POS only i5 or equivalent 16GB 250 GB Edge components require hard drive space POS & Edge Server * classic POS only i5 or equivalent 32GB 250 GB Edge components require hard drive space Peripheral support policy We provide support for the Store application with a curated list of peripherals connected to certified devices. However, it is recommended that the peripherals' firmware and driver versions be updated and no older than three years. Supported Peripherals Below is the list of supported peripherals, organized by type. Peripherals classified as legacy or discontinued by vendors are moved to the deprecation list and are no longer supported. Peripheral Type Peripherals Deprecated peripherals Cash Drawers POS: APG 480, APG 100 Series Receipt Printers POS: Epson TM-T88V, Epson TM-T88VI, Epson TM-T88VII Epson TM-T88IV Scanners SIF: Built-in device scanner from Zebra Android, Built-in device camera from Apple & Zebra Android POS: Zebra DS9908, Zebra DS4801 Honeywell SL22 Payment Terminals POS: Verifone M400, Verifone E28, Adyen M400, Adyen E285 Verifone MX915/925 RFID Readers POS:  Nordic Id RFID Sampo S2 SIF: Zebra RFD8500 handheld RFID readers, Zebra RFD40 handheld RFID readers Label Printers SIF: Zebra Desktop Series Thermal Printers which support TCP / IP protocol Firmware Version Information The following are the minimum firmware requirements for the respective peripherals. Model: RFD40 Terminal Software: Zebra Firmware Version: SAAFKS00-008-R01 Model: RFD8500 Terminal Software: Zebra Firmware Version: SAACPS00-008-R01 Model: M400 Terminal Software: Adyen Firmware Version: 1.109.2 Model: M400 Terminal Software: PAYware Firmware Version: Name SW Version (Checksum) Atmel 1.0.AA () Atmel Touch Config 2.28 FPGA 0x6BB05019 Model: MX 915/925 Terminal Software: PAYware Firmware Version: 1.6.24.2503 Model: e285p Terminal Software: Adyen Firmware Version: 1.109.2 Model: e285p Terminal Software: PAYware Firmware Version: Name SW Version (Checksum) Atmel 1.0.AB () Atmel Touch Config 0.7 Network Bandwidth Recommendation for Active Store Both the POS and Classic POS solutions communicate with the backend cloud server via real-time API calls and events. Additionally, offline mode requires periodic synchronization to maintain up-to-date transaction data. To ensure seamless operations, stores must meet the following minimum bandwidth requirements. Real-Time Mode (Online Transactions) For smooth transaction processing and continuous communication with the backend, stores should have the minimum bandwidth: Up to 3 POS registers → 3 Mbps per register More than 3 POS registers → 3 Mbps per register for the first 3 registers, and 1 Mbps for each additional register This ensures efficient transaction flow while optimizing network usage in high-density retail environments. Offline Mode (Data Sync & Updates) For stores using offline functionality (e.g., offline data sync): Recommended: 10 Mbps bandwidth → Ensures efficient downloads & sync from the cloud to the offline server. Minimum: 5 Mbps bandwidth → Offline servers can function at this speed, but sync/downloads may take longer. Edge Server Hardware Minimum Requirements (Classic POS) Resilience is crucial for Point of Sale (POS) cash-and-carry transactions. The Classic POS application requires a dedicated Edge server to ensure continuous operation during internet disruptions, enabling seamless transactions and enhanced reliability. To effectively support stores of various sizes, sufficient hardware must be available to run edge servers, ensuring POS registers remain operational during connectivity loss. Level  1 Level 2 Processor Intel Core i5 10th Generation Intel Core i5 12th Generation Core 6 14 Thread 12 20 Cycle 2.5 GHz 2.5 GHz Memory (RAM) 16 GB 32 GB Jave Max Heap 12 GB 24 GB Reference Device Dell OptiPlex 3080 Dell OptiPlex Small Form Factor For stores with up to 15 POS registers, the Edge server must meet the Level 1 specifications shown in the table above. This ensures that these registers can efficiently process transactions and communicate with the local edge server. For stores with 16 - 50 POS registers, the Edge server must meet the Level 2 specifications. It is recommended to have a dedicated machine to run the edge server. This becomes more important when you have a large number of registers (~10) in the store. If the (Classic) POS application must be run on the same machine as the Edge server, add 16 GB to the memory specifications listed above. For example, the Level 1 specification will increase from 16 GG to 32 GB of memory. Note: The Edge server applies only to Classic POS. Zebra DataWedge Configuration DataWedge app is a Zebra feature, and we don't maintain/update the related documentation. Please refer to the Zebra's DataWedge configuration documentation link below. Follow the steps outlined in Zebra’s documentation to create a “Store” profile. https://techdocs.zebra.com/datawedge/latest/guide/settings/ “This policy is subject to periodic review and may be updated to align with industry standards and advancement.”