# Store Engagement Process

**Permalink:** storeengagement-process
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Store/Process & Configuration Guides/Point of Sale/POS Classic Guides/Store Customer Engagement/Engagement (Clienteling)/Engagement
**Content Length:** 28,636 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:03:50.071797

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Store››Process & Configuration Guides››Point of Sale››POS Classic Guides››Store Customer Engagement››Engagement (Clienteling) ››Store Engagement Process Store Engagement (Clienteling) Overview The Store Engagement (Clienteling) feature of POS enables a user to manage and/or schedule non-transaction specific communication, services, or work that they may need to track. These features are automatically available with the POS License. All Store Engagement (Clienteling) features are also available to Store Customer Engagement (SCE) users based on configurations and user grants.  However the following are only available to SCE users, with the additional  SCE license: customer dashboard, customer sub-header, customer cases, enhanced customer email and enhanced order details. See  Store Customer Engagement  process guide for more details about SCE. Feature Summary This includes Interactions  which are communications between store and customer by a variety of channels such as Email, Phone logs and In-store Pickups Creating, sending, and tracking Lookbooks, Calendar related items such as customer Appointments and associate Tasks, One-way communications via home office and store in the form of Announcements. Based on grants assigned to the specific user's role, these items can be viewed in context of specific user (for example, "my tasks", "my announcements") or, across all associates in a store ("all tasks for store 1028, all users"). With the store-wide permission, users can access store wide data to oversee daily operations of the store and make necessary adjustments as required. Tip: If business flag under pos store config > store common config > "show store wide user data" is configured as true and logged in user's role has the appropriate grants then user can access data across the store for appointment, tasks, lookbooks and announcements.  Otherwise each user views only those items relating to him/herself. Details Business Flags:ResourceIDsAnnouncementsActivity - Appointments and TasksInteractionsLookbookLoyaltyNavigationServices Business Flags: Lookbook:  Application Configuration > Manage POS Configuration > Lookbook Configuration:  turns Lookbook on and off on both the customer record screen as well as the home screen and Users drop-down menu. Store Wide View: Application Configuration > Manage POS Configuration > POS Store Config > Store Common Config > Show Store Wide User Data: turns on the store wide view so users can view appointments, tasks and customer communications across all users within the store, not just the logged in user's information. ResourceIDs RESOURCE ID DESCRIPTION ui::clienteling::activity::addappointment This is a UI button for adding Customer activity appointment ui::clienteling::activity::customerappointments This is a UI button for Customer Management Activity ui::clienteling::activity::customeremaillog This is a UI button for Customer Email Logs ui::clienteling::activity::appointment::addnewcustomer This is a UI button to add a new customer from the new appointment popover ui::clienteling::activity::appointment::saveandnew This is a UI button to save and create a new appointment ui::clienteling::activity::appointment::save This is a UI button to save a new appointment ui::clienteling::activity::task::addnewcustomer This is a UI button to add a new customer from the new task popover ui::clienteling::activity::task::saveandnew This is a UI button to save a new customer and create a new one from the new task popover ui::clienteling::activity::task::save This is a UI button to save a new customer from the new task popover ui::clienteling::activity::customerphonelog This is a UI button for Customer Phone Logs ui::clienteling::activity::customerPhoneLog::addnewcustomer This is a UI button to add a new customer from the new phone log popover ui::clienteling::activity::customerPhoneLog::saveandnew This is a UI button to save and add a new customer from the new phone log popover ui::clienteling::activity::customerPhoneLog::save This is a UI button to save a new customer from the new phone log popover ui::clienteling::activity::customertasks This is a UI button for Customer Management tasks ui::clienteling::activity::editappointment This is a UI button for editing Customer activity appointment ui::clienteling::customer::customeractivity This is a UI action for Customer Management Activity ui::clienteling::customer::customeradd This is a UI action to add customer ui::clienteling::customer::customeredit This is a UI action to edit customer ui::clienteling::customer::customerinfo This is a UI action for Customer Management info ui::clienteling::customer::customerloyalty This is a UI action to display customer loyalty ui::clienteling::customer::customernotes This is a UI action for Customer Management Notes ui::clienteling::customer::customerpurchases This is a UI action for Customer Management Purchases ui::clienteling::customer::customerwishlist This is a UI action for Customer Management Wishlist ui::clienteling::customer::customerwishlist::add This is a UI button to adding wishlist item ui::clienteling::customer::delete This is a UI action to delete customer ui::clienteling::customer::addAddress This resource ID allows the user to add address to a customer.  User should have this grant to add customer in ship to address flow ui::clienteling::customer::deletesavedaddress This is a UI button make Delete Saved Address ui::clienteling::customer::editsavedaddress This is a UI button make Edit Saved Address ui::clienteling::customer::customeradd This is a UI action to add customer ui::clienteling::customer::makeactive This is a UI button make Customer active ui::clienteling::customer::wishlist::remove This is a UI button to remove wishlist item ui::clienteling::customer::employeeidedit This is a UI action to Edit the customer employeeID field ui::clienteling::customer::employeeidview This is a UI action to View the customer employeeID field ui::clienteling::note::addnote This is a UI button for adding Note ui::clienteling::note::deletenote This is a UI button for deleting Note ui::clienteling::note::editnote This is a UI button for editing Note ui::clienteling::note::addnote::save This is a UI button for saving notes ui::clienteling::note::addnote::saveandnew This is a UI button for saving and creating new notes ui::clienteling::note::addnote::privacy This is a UI button for marking a note as private (create and edit screen) ui::clienteling::purchases::editpurchase This is a UI button for editing purchases ui::clienteling::purchases::giftreceipt This is a UI button for gift receipt ui::clienteling::purchases::reprintreceipt This is a UI button to reprint receipt ui::clienteling::purchases::returnpurchase This is a UI button for return purchases ui::clienteling::usermenu::announcements This is a UI action to show/hide announcement option ui::clienteling::usermenu::workspace This is a UI action to show/hide workspace option ui::engagement::announcements::markasread This is a UI action to mark an announcement as read ui::clienteling::activity::storeview::customerappointments This UI grant will allow the user to access appointments created by all users in the store ui::clienteling::activity::deleteappointment This is a UI button for deleting Customer activity appointment ui::clienteling::activity::storeview::customertasks This UI grant will allow the user to access tasks crea ui::posservice::storeview::announcements This UI grant will allow the user to access Store level announcements ui::lookbook::user::storeview::lookbookview This UI grant will allow the user to access lookbooks created by all users in the store ui::lookbook::user::lookbookview:fullscreen This UI grant will allow the user to enter the full screen view of a lookbook ui::engagement::menu::lookbook This UI grant will allow the user to see the Lookbook menu option on the Home Screen ui::lookbook::customer::lookbookcreate This UI grant will allow the user to create a lookbook under the customer profile. ui::clienteling::activity::addtask This is a UI button for adding Customer activity task ui::clienteling::activity::edittask This is a UI button for editng Customer activity task ui::clienteling::activity::deletetask This is a UI button for deleting Customer activity task ui::geo::zipdetails Get details of the zip code Announcements Announcements are sent down by the organization to various employees. They can be sent for all employees of the organization, just specific locations, or individually for the specific employee or all employees of a specific role. From an Announcement List summary page user can open each Announcement to view the full contents. Tip: There is no UI to create, update, or delete Announcements. It is expected that the retailer will manage them via the possservice/announcement API. Standard Announcements View With standard grants, the announcement list will be limited by the context of the user, and his/her role. User will not have access to announcements which do not target either the specific user, or, their specific role. Standard users can filter announcements by choosing any of the below filter options: For Me: Only the announcement for the logged in user. For Store: Any announcement for the store for which the user role is associated. For Organization: Any announcement for the organization for which the user role is associated. Store Wide Announcements View With store-wide grants, the announcement list will not be limited by the context of the user, and his/her role. Filter options will behave differently for users with the store-wide grants: For Me: This remains same and list only announcement for the logged in user. For Store: This now lists announcement for the store irrespective of user role. For example: (if announcement was for store and only store associate's user role, then a user having access to store wide data can be this announcement even if user is a store manager role) For Organization: This now lists announcement for the organization irrespective of user role. Announcement Acknowledgement: Announcements can be acknowledged as read from the announcement details screen by choosing the "mark as read" option. This is saved to the database and is shown as "read" on the list screen. This guides the user to choose and view unread and also filter announcement based on read/unread data. Activity - Appointments and Tasks The activity section allows a user to view Appointments relating to customers, and to set Tasks for themselves. Both Appointments and Tasks are items which are associated to start date/time and duration (end time). Appointments must be linked to a customer as well; Tasks are similar but may/may not be linked to a customer. Both Appointments and Tasks may be viewed as lists or via a calendar view. Appointment information may be sent to the Appointment customer via an Email. Appointments and Tasks can be toggled as Completed and may be Canceled. Store wide Appointments and Tasks If POS is configured to support it and the user role has appropriate grants, the user can view and modify Appointments for other users, and view (but not modify) Tasks created by other users. If either is not true, user can only view and modify Appointments/Tasks created by his/her self. Tip: If Calendar duration is enabled from POS general config > common config > "Enable Appointment duration", then the user needs to enter the start time of the appointment or task, and set the duration. The end time is automatically calculated for the user. Interactions More and more retailers are using various communication methods to interact with their customers for various reasons. The Interactions tab in the customer record provides store personnel the ability to view these various communications between the retailer and the customer, as well as initiate communications. The AO Store product currently supports creation of outbound Email to customers.   Inbound Emails can be viewed if the retailer chooses to populate the customer interactions entity with inbound Email records via (custom) integration with their email service provider. Outbound Email Interactions can be created from various locations within the application: Global Add, Interactions Menu, Workspace, Activity, and Item details. Attachments Outbound attachments in the form of item data from AO item file are supported. If the items are present in the Workspace, multiple items may be attached to an email. Inbound attachments are not supported. Note: Store interactions display all interactions the logged in store has had with any customer. Example: Store 001 display interactions that Customer A, as well as Customer B, has had with Store 001 Lookbook Also refer to Store Customer Engagement guide for more detail regarding Lookbooks. Lookbooks are special Emails which are sent to customers. After sending, they are also available as Interactions, just as other Emails would be. User can access the Lookbook feature from User Menu > Lookbooks tab. By default, all lookbooks created by the users are listed in this screen, but user can choose to use different filter criteria as below to view the specific list of lookbooks. Standard Lookbook View With standard grants, the Lookbook list/filter will be limited by the context of the user Standard users can filter Lookbooks by choosing any of the below filter options: All lookbooks : Lists all the lookbooks created by users and suggested by corporate. My lookbooks: Lists only the lookbook created by the user. Suggested lookbooks: Lists only the lookbook suggested/shared by corporate. Store Wide Lookbook View With store-wide grants, the Lookbook list/filter will not be limited by the context of the user. Filter options will behave differently for users with the store-wide grants: All lookbooks : Lists all the lookbooks created by all users across the organization and suggested by corporate. My lookbooks: Lists only the lookbook created by all users in the store. Suggested lookbooks: Lists only the lookbook suggested/shared by corporate. Loyalty The loyalty tab on the customer page provides order value information to the user and the retailer.  This data shows 2 years worth of data, both the current and previous year. The data shown includes: Total number of orders Total dollar amount spent Total dollar amount of returns Navigation There are two ways for a user to access the store engagement functions. Both the Home screen and Hamburger navigation have menu options for each of the functionality i.e.. Activity, Announcements, and Lookbooks. Users can also use the "User" drop-down menu from the sub-header within the Cart, Catalog, and other additional screens. Upon selection of any of the menu options, the user navigates to the corresponding screen. Services The following APIs are the key APIs related to Employee activity. Refer to the API documentation for additional details on each service. Service Component Group Service Endpoint Announcements List posservice Announcement Services /storefacade/api/storefacade/posservice/filterAnnouncements Get Appointments Clienteling AppointmentTaskDetail Services /storefacade/api/storefacade/clienteling/filterAppointmentTaskDetails?taskType=Appointment Get Appointments - Calendar Clienteling AppointmentTaskDetail Services /storefacade/api/storefacade/clienteling/calendarAppointmentData?taskType=Appointment Get Tasks Clienteling AppointmentTaskDetail Services /storefacade/api/storefacade/clienteling/filterAppointmentTaskDetails?taskType=Task Get Task - Calendar Clienteling AppointmentTaskDetail Services /storefacade/api/storefacade/clienteling/calendarAppointmentData?taskType=Task View Notes Clienteling Notes Services storefacade/api/storefacade/clienteling/note/getNotes?filterType=MY_NOTES Lookbook Lookbook Lookbook Services /storefacade/api/storefacade/lookbook/getLookbooksSharedInfo Get Interactions CustomerInteraction Customer Interactions /storefacade/api/storefacade/customerinteraction/interaction?page=0&size=20&sort=CreatedTimestamp%2bDESC