# Store Mobile App Deployment

**Permalink:** store-mobile-app-deployment
**Content Length:** 5,984 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:39:14.007649

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Administrator Tools&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store ››Store Mobile App Deployment Store Mobile App Deployment Mobile App Deployment PolicyRemote Device Configuration via MDM Mobile App Deployment Policy A new version of Manhattan Active&reg;&nbsp;Omni is deployed by the Manhattan Associates Operations team with each bi-weekly code drop.&nbsp;Manhattan releases a new version of the Active Store&nbsp;mobile app with&nbsp;each quarterly market release. Mobile app versions that correspond to the bi-weekly code drops and fall in between market releases are available upon request. The Store app must be resigned with customer&#39;s certificate before distributing to their devices. It is the responsibility of the customer to manage their certificate expiration and renew as needed. Refer to Resign process&nbsp;guide&nbsp;for more information. For customers using the Active Store mobile app, it is the customer&#39;s responsibility to regularly deploy the app to their devices. Customers should use a mobile device management (MDM) system to manage this. An MDM is used to: Manage the deployment schedule and cadence of app updates. Provide visibility into the version of the app installed on each device. &nbsp; Note: Each version of the Active Store app that is deployed must be resigned by the customer.&nbsp; Manhattan guarantees backward compatibility of the Active Store app for the two most recent quarterly releases. For example, once Manhattan Active Omni version 23.4 is released, we will support the Store app versions for 23.4 and 23.3. Support for the 23.2 Store app ends. The same rule&nbsp;applies for Active Omni Store application running on browsers.&nbsp;Ensure that the Custom CDN URL points to the application version for the two most recent quarterly releases. You can always refer&nbsp;to release notes for the latest release version. For customers not already on the latest version of the Store app, fixes will be provided to the latest bi-weekly code drop version of the app. Recommendations Keep your version of the Store mobile app current with the latest&nbsp;quarterly release. Once the quarterly release is available, deploy the latest version of the mobile app at the same time as the server production deployment (to all or a set of stores), followed by a complete rollout within 2 weeks. Remote Device Configuration via MDM Retailers can centrally manage certain&nbsp;device-level configurations of the&nbsp;iOS and Android&nbsp;Store applications through&nbsp;their Mobile Device Management (MDM)&nbsp;provider. Out of the box support is provided for&nbsp;Workspace ONE (formerly known as AirWatch) and SOTI.&nbsp;Currently the Store app&#39;s URL and authentication URL values can be managed via MDM. This eliminates the need to specify the URL and authentication URL values during the application build process, or to manually configure at the device level. This is supported by both the online and offline/Edge Store applications. For both iOS and Android, the Store application checks during application launch if new configuration exists on the device from the MDM before the login page is displayed. If so, the new configuration is applied to the Store application, overwriting any previously existing configuration for the URL and auth URL fields on the device.&nbsp;Since the trigger to check for new configuration is at the time of app launch, if a user happens to be working in the application when new configuration is pushed from the MDM, the new configuration updates will not be applied until the next time the application is launched. Note: If the URl and auth URL values are managed remotely via MDM, users should not manually update these values in the Store application since the device&nbsp;values will be overridden by the MDM configuration each time the Store application launches. A hide extension can be implemented to prevent&nbsp;the ability to change the URL and auth URL fields from the device, if desired. iOS application configuration To remotely manage configuration of the Store iOS application, the Managed App Configuration standard (see&nbsp;AppConfig Community) is used. With this approach, the Store app checks for any updated configuration when the application is launched. Android application configuration For the Android application, an externalized config.json approach is used to remotely manage device-level configuration. With this approach, the Store app checks for any updated configuration when the application is launched as well as upon logout.