# Goals

**Permalink:** storegoals
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Store/Process & Configuration Guides/Store Common/Goals
**Content Length:** 48,185 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:05:28.837199

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Store››Process & Configuration Guides››Store Common ››Goals Goals OverviewStore GoalsHistoryStore Fulfillment HoursLeaderboardGoals SummaryConfigurationConfiguration examplesGoalsCalendar ConfigurationExceptionTroubleshooting Overview Many retailers face challenges in defining clear goals for their stores and ensuring that stores can readily access those goals. This lack of transparency makes it difficult for stores to track their goals and make progress towards them. Stores have the ability to track their progress towards their goals. Stores can also view their performance against other stores who have the same goals. Retailers can define two types of goals - an on-time goal or a completely fulfilled goal. On-time goals - Measure how many orders are fulfilled within a defined time period. For pickup orders, a fulfillment qualifies as on time if picking occurs within the goal's time period. For shipment orders, a fulfillment qualifies if all picking and packing occurs within the defined goal duration. A fulfillment can be classified as on-time even if a short occurred. An on-time fulfillment considers only whether the units were picked and packed within the stipulated time frame, ignoring any shorted units. Completely fulfilled goals - Measure how many orders were fulfilled in full. For pickup orders, a fulfillment qualifies if all units are picked with no shorts. For shipment orders, a fulfillment qualifies if all units are picked and packed with no shorts. These goals are evaluated independently. Meaning that a given fulfillment can qualify for both types of goals, one of them, or neither of them. Store Goals Associates can view each goal that has been configured for the store on the Store Goals UI as well as how their store is performing against that goal. The UI allows users to view all assigned goals with their name, description, target value and performance visualized through a progress bar. This makes it easy to see how close your store is to achieving each goal. Associates can view the number of open and at risk orders for each goal. For stores that have one or more on-time goals defined, the number of overdue orders is also displayed for those goals. Clicking on any of these directs the associate to the Prepare Pickups/Prepare Shipment UI, accordingly. This functionality is governed by permissions. See the Store Common UI resources for more information. Refer to the configuration section for store goal examples. History The history screen shows the goal's progress as well as the total number of fulfillments that the store associates have completed and the total number of fulfillments that have met the goal condition. Store associates can view history for the current date or a date within the last 30 days. The list of fulfillments that do not meet the goal conditions is displayed in the exception section. Store Fulfillment Hours Retailers can define the fulfillments hours of their stores so that time-based goals are only measured against the time range that the store fulfills orders. A calendar defines the store's fulfillment hours by day of week with the ability to define overrides for holidays. Refer to the configuration section for additional information. Leaderboard The Leaderboard UI allows store managers to compare the logged-in store's performance against other stores that are assigned with the same goal. It displays a ranked list, with the top-performing store at number one and the rest following in descending order based on their performance percentage. This way, the store manager can see how their store stacks up against the other stores. If a store has been assigned with multiple goals, the leaderboard allows the store manager to easily switch between them. Simply select the desired goal, and the leaderboard will update to show the rankings specifically for that goal. This gives the store manager a comprehensive view of their store's performance across all its assigned goals. Goals Summary Retailers can monitor the performance of all stores against the goals they have set across the organization. Retailers can select individual goals and dates to see how many stores are meeting them and how many are not, across the organization. Retailers can view how many orders are meeting the goal and how many are not, based on the total number of orders processed across all stores. Additionally, retailers can track the average time taken by stores to meet on-time pickup goals as well as the average percentage of fully completed orders to meet the complete fulfillment goals. This functionality is governed by permissions. See the Store Common UI resources for more information. The Leaderboard UI displays all stores ranked by their performance. For on-time goals, it shows each store's performance, the number of orders processed, and the average time taken to complete picking and packing. For fully fulfilled goals, it shows each store's performance and the number of orders processed. Store associates can apply filters to view stores that are meeting their goals versus those that are missing their goals. Additionally, store associates can search for specific stores to view their performance. Configuration 1. Ensure that the purposes listed below have been copied from the base profile to your custom profile. Profile Purposes to copy from base to custom profile ago::goalConfig, ago::eventConfig, ago::batch, ago::messaging, ago::processDefinition,  ago::aggregationConfig, ful::eventConfig, ful::tagsConfig, ful::inheritanceConfig, ful::labelsConfig, and org::calendarConfig 2. Define your goals a. "Goals" UI menu is located under the "Manage Goal Configuration". b. In the Store Goals UI, define your on-time goals and fulfillment rate goals for customer pickup and shipment orders. 1. To define the on-time goal for customer pickup orders, select the rule name "OnTime pickup fulfillments". To define the on-time goal for customer shipment orders, select the rule name "OnTime shipment fulfillments". 2. To define the completely fulfilled order goal for customer pickup orders, select the rule name "Completely fulfilled pickups". To define the completely fulfilled order goal for customer shipment orders, select the rule name "Completely fulfilled shipments". c. When creating the goal definition, give the rank to each goal to control the order that it appears to associates in the store UI. If multiple goals have the same rank, then goals will be shown in alphabetic order. If the rank is NULL, the goal will be shown last in the list. d. Define the target type and target value in order to evaluate the store's performance in relation to the goal. Note that on the Goals UI, the target duration type and target duration value fields are only visible to the users when defining on-time goals (rule name equal to "OnTime pickup fulfillments" or "OnTime shipment fulfillments.") e. See example goals below. 3. If you have defined any on-time goals, you must configure a store fulfillment calendar a. Create a calendar ID using the Calendar Configuration UI. The calendar defines the store fulfillment hours for each day of the week. Within the calendar ID, define the fulfillment hours for all seven days of the week. If all stores in the organization share the same fulfillment hours, only one calendar ID is needed. But if the fulfillment hours vary within the organization, create one calendar ID for each unique combination. A few additional pointers: 1. Shift is mandatory 2. Retailers can define multiple shifts per day 3. Enter time in 24-hour format (i.e., either as 0000,2359 or 00:00,23:59) b. Model any specific dates such as holidays where the store hour hours differ from the calendar (or the store is closed all day) by adding a Calendar Override for each date. c. Associate the calendar to the store. Using the Location Fulfillment Attribute tab of the Location UIs, define the Pickup Fulfillment Calendar ID and/or Shipment Fulfillment Calendar ID. d. See example calendars below. Configuration examples Goals Example goal 1: Complete picking of 90% of customer pickup orders within 2 hours Goal ID CustomerPickupGoal01 Goal Name On Time Customer Pickup Order Goal Description Fulfill all pickup orders within 2 Hrs. Fulfillment Type Fulfillment Rank 1 Rule Name OnTime Pickup Fulfillments Target Duration Type Hours Target duration value 2 Target Type Percentage Target Value 90 Example goal 2: Ensure 85% of orders are completely fulfilled. Goal ID CustomerShipmentGoal01 Goal Name Completely fulfilled customer shipment orders. Goal Description Completely fulfilled customer shipment orders. Fulfillment Type Fulfillment Rank 2 Rule Name Completely Fulfilled Shipments Target Type Percentage Target Value 85 Calendar Configuration Here are some examples of how fulfullments are evaluated for on-time goals based on sample goal and calendar configuration: Example 1 - BOPIS Fulfillment Hours Calendar configuration: Calendar Config ID PickupFulfillmentHours Calendar Config Name Pickup Fulfillment Hours Description Pickup Fulfillment Hours Calendar Configuration Day (Create calendar for each day of the week) Day Id Monday Shift Name MondayShift Start Time 08:00 End Time 16:00 Description Monday Fulfillment Hours Day Id Tuesday Shift Name TuesdayShift Start Time 08:00 End Time 16:00 Description Tuesday Fulfillment Hours Example fulfillment scenarios: Scenario Create Date and Time Start Date and Time End Date and Time Pickup order dropped at 8:00 AM on Monday Monday 8:00 AM Monday 08:00 AM Monday 10:00 AM Pickup order dropped at 02:00 PM on Monday Monday 02:00 PM Monday 02 :00 PM Monday 04:00 PM Pickup order dropped at 4:30 PM on Monday Monday 4:30 PM Tuesday 08:00 AM Tuesday 10:00 AM Pickup order dropped at 21:00 PM on Monday Monday 9:00 PM Tuesday 08:00 AM Tuesday 10:00 AM Pickup order dropped at 2:00 AM on Tuesday Tuesday 2:00 AM Tuesday 8:00 AM Tuesday 10:00 AM Example 2 - Shipment Fulfillment Hours Calendar configuration: Calendar Config ID ShipmentFulfillmentHours Calendar Config Name Shipments Fulfillment Hours Description Shipments Fulfillment Hours Calendar Configuration Day (Create calendar for each day of the week) Day Id Monday Shift Name MondayShift Start Time 08:00 End Time 20:00 Description Monday Fulfillment Hours Day Id Tuesday Shift Name TuesdayShift Start Time 08:00 End Time 20:00 Description Tuesday Fulfillment Hours Day Id Wednesday Shift Name WednesdayShift Start Time 08:00 End Time 20:00 Description Wednesday Fulfillment Hours Example fulfillment scenarios: Scenario Create Date and Time Start Date and Time End Date and Time Shipment order dropped at 8:00 AM on Monday Monday 8:00 AM Monday 08:00 AM Tuesday 04:00 PM Shipment order dropped at 2 PM on Monday Monday 2:00 PM Monday 02:00 PM Tuesday 08:00 PM Shipment order dropped at 4:30 PM on Monday Monday 4:30 PM Monday 04:30 PM Wednesday 01:30 PM Shipment order dropped at 9:00 PM on Monday Monday 9:00 PM Tuesday 08:00 AM Wednesday 04:00 PM Shipment order dropped at 2:00 AM on Tuesday Tuesday 2:00 AM Tuesday 08:00 AM Wednesday 04:00 PM Example 3 - BOPIS Fulfillment Hours (Public Holiday: Christmas Eve) Calendar configuration: Calendar Config ID PickupFulfillmentHours Calendar Config Name Pickup Fulfillment Hours Description Pickup Fulfillment Hours Calendar Configuration Day (Create calendar for each day of the week) Day Id Monday Shift Name MondayShift Start Time 08:00 End Time 16:00 Description Monday Fulfillment Hours Day Id Tuesday Shift Name TuesdayShift Start Time 08:00 End Time 16:00 Description Tuesday Fulfillment Hours Day Id Wednesday Shift Name WednesdayShift Start Time 08:00 End Time 16:00 Description Wednesday Fulfillment Hours Calenday Day Override (Monday 24th Dec) Date 24th Dec (Monday) Shift Name MondayShift Start time 08:00 End Time 12:00 Is Nonworking No Description Christmas Eve Half Day Holiday Note: For the MondayShift, if the "Is Nonworking" field is set to No, the system will count only the hours from 08:00 to 12:00 on December 24th for fulfillment. Example fulfillment scenarios: Scenario Create Date and Time Start Date and Time End Date and Time Pickup order dropped at 8:00 AM on Monday Monday 8:00 AM Monday 08:00 AM Monday 10:00 AM Pickup order dropped at 10:00 AM on Monday Monday 10:00 AM Monday 10:00 AM Monday 12:00 PM Pickup order dropped at 4:30 PM on Monday Monday 4:30 PM Tuesday 08:00 AM Tuesday 10:00 AM Pickup order dropped at 21:00 PM on Monday Monday 9:00 PM Tuesday 08:00 AM Tuesday 10:00 AM Pickup order dropped at 2:00 AM on Tuesday Tuesday 2:00 AM Tuesday 8:00 AM Tuesday 10:00 AM Example 4 - BOPIS Fulfillment Hours (Public Holiday: Christmas) Calendar configuration: Calendar Config ID PickupFulfillmentHours Calendar Config Name Pickup Fulfillment Hours Description Pickup Fulfillment Hours Calendar Configuration Day (Create calendar for each day of the week) Day Id Monday Shift Name MondayShift Start Time 08:00 End Time 16:00 Description Monday Fulfillment Hours Day Id Tuesday Shift Name TuesdayShift Start Time 08:00 End Time 16:00 Description Tuesday Fulfillment Hours Day Id Wednesday Shift Name WednesdayShift Start Time 08:00 End Time 16:00 Description Wednesday Fulfillment Hours Calenday Day Override (Monday 24th Dec) Date 25th Dec (Tuesday) Shift Name TuesdayShift Start time 08:00 End Time 16:00 Is Nonworking Yes Description Christmas Holiday Note: For the TuesdayShift, If the "Is Nonworking" field is set to Yes, the entire shift will be excluded from the fulfillment hours. Example fulfillment scenarios: Scenario Create Date and Time Start Date and Time End Date and Time Pickup order dropped at 8:00 AM on Tuesday Tuesday 8:00 AM Wednesday 08:00 AM Wednesday 10:00 AM Pickup order dropped at 10:00 AM on Tuesday Tuesday 10:00 AM Wednesday 08:00 AM Wednesday 10:00 AM Pickup order dropped at 4:30 PM on Tuesday Tuesday 4:30 PM Wednesday 08:00 AM Wednesday 10:00 AM Pickup order dropped at 21:00 PM on Tuesday Tuesday 9:00 PM Wednesday 08:00 AM Wednesday 10:00 AM Pickup order dropped at 2:00 AM on Wednesday Wednesday 2:00 AM Wednesday 08:00 AM Wednesday 10:00 AM Pickup order dropped at 12:00 PM on Wednesday Wednesday 12:00 PM Wednesday 12:00 PM Wednesday 14:00 PM Exception When a pickup or shipment fulfillment is created and completed by store associates either before the goal start time or after the goal end time, the system sets the duration to 1 minute by default and excludes that fulfillment from the store’s pickup or shipment goal performance.  For example, if the on-time pickup goal timeframe is 9:00 AM to 6:00 PM, and a fulfillment is created at 7:00 PM and completed by 8:00 PM, the system will set the fulfillment pick duration to 1 minute and does not count the fulfillment toward the on-time pickup goal. Troubleshooting Fulfillment messages are not being published to the aggregation component. In order to aggregate the fulfillment data at the goal level for every location, the fulfillment component needs to send fulfillment information to the aggregation component when the fulfillment is picked or packed. Perform the following action to send messages to the aggregate component. Step 1: Make a get call of the API below GET {{url}}/fulfillment/api/eventProducer/eventStrategy Step 2: Take the PK from the response of step 1 Step 3: Update the event strategy Active flag from false to true using the API below. In the url, replace pk with pk from step 2 PUT {{url}}/fulfillment/api/eventProducer/eventStrategy/<pk> { "EntityStrategyId": "FulfillmentMetricsStrategy", "IsRuleRequired": false, "EntityId": "Fulfillment", "Active": true, "IsOldValuesRequired": false, "DetectionTemplateId": "FulfillmentMetricsOutboundEventDetectionTemplate", "Component": "com-manh-cp-fulfillment", "TemplateId": "FulfillmentMetricsOutboundEventTemplate", "MessageType": "FulfillmentMetricEventMSGType" } Step 4: Repeat step 1 and ensure the active flag is now true. Issue Troubleshooting Tip During creation of the goal definition, MUP UI shows the error "Unable to locate profile details record for profile purpose ago::processDefinition". Ensure that the profile purposes "ago::goalConfig", "ago::eventConfig", "ago::batch", "ago::messaging", "ago::processDefinition",  "ago::aggregationConfig" and "ful::eventConfig" are copied from the base profile to the custom profile. Unable to see fulfillments record in the fulfillment daily location entity. Ensure that the profile purposes "ful::tagsConfig", "ful::inheritanceConfig" and "ful::labelsConfig" are copied from the base profile to the custom profile.