# Store - External Deep Linking

**Permalink:** store-external-deep-link
**Path:** Administrator Tools/Store/Store - External Deep Linking
**Content Length:** 26,014 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:11:39.643491

---

Home ››Administrator Tools››Store ››Store - External Deep Linking Store - External Deep Linking OverviewURL DefinitionNavigating to Custom PageDeeplink Login, Store Selection & Logout HandlingNavigating to Base Page Overview External deep linking allows customers to directly navigate to specific pages of the Active Omni Store application from an external link (such as an e-mail, web page or another mobile application.) This is supported on mobile devices and desktops, and for both base and custom pages. Base pages must be exposed in order to be linked . When the user clicks on the link, the following occurs: Authentication - The application checks if a user is already authenticated. If not, the user is presented with the login screen. Upon login, users should be taken to the directed link. Store selection - If a default store is not configured on the device or if the store ID is not passed in the deep link, the store selection pop-up is displayed to the user. User access - The application checks whether the user has the necessary permission to view the desired page. If not, an error message (“The user doesn't have a valid grant to access the resource”) is displayed. Note: External deep linking is supported for the Store application on iOS and Android as well as on the desktop Chrome and Firefox browsers. Microsoft Edge browser is supported with version 44 and above. Linking to the offline/Edge application is currently not supported.From the Active Omni Store Application, thru extensibility, you can navigate to another mobile application. This depends on the deep linking ability of the external applications. URL Definition The below URL definitions can be used when opening a page of the Store application via the MAO Store mobile application, desktop browser or mobile browser. URL Format The example below shows the URL format to navigate to the Prepare Shipments screen filtered in a particular order: URL format [Host] + [Store deep link suffix] + [Page ID] + [optional page-specific parameters] Host https://environment.host.com Store deep link prefix /storefacade/api/storefacade/storeui/redirect Page ID See base page ID table below Optional page-specific parameters See base page ID table below Open Page via Store Mobile App or Desktop Browser To open the link with the Store application that is installed on the mobile device or from a desktop browser, follow the URL format information mentioned on this page. All page IDs listed in the following table support opening via the Store mobile app or from a desktop browser. To open a page via the Store mobile application, configuration in KV Store (/config/application/store.app.urlscheme) must be setup to associate the host that is included in the deep link URL with a URL scheme that uniquely identifies the mobile application. If multiple instances of the Store application are installed on a mobile device (which points to different hosts, such as a production app and a staging app), a mapping must be configured for each host/application that will be deep linked to. The URL scheme is defined during the app build process. For base builds, the default value is manhstoreapp as shown in the examples on this page. Customers can also optionally override the base value to create unique instances of the mobile app through the resign script or during the custom app build. (i.e., stagingapp). Also, in order to open the right page from the right app (online/offline), the URL scheme is unique for the online and offline app. The default value is manhonline and for offline builds, the default value is manhoffline. For customers who optionally override the base URL scheme, the specified URL scheme is applied to the online app. For the offline app, the value is appended with "offline." For example, if the override URL is specified as "stagingapp", the online app's URL scheme will be stagingapp and the offline app's will be stagingappoffline. Deeplinking is not supported for offline app. To open a page on the desktop browser, configuration in KV Store (/config/com-manh-cp-storefacade/VP_HOST) must be setup to associate the host that is included in the deep link URL with a URL scheme that uniquely identifies the mobile application. The example URL below navigates to the Prepare Shipments screen filtered with a particular order ID: https://environment.host.com/storefacade/api/storefacade/storeui/redirect?PageId=work-default-list&workFlow=pick&isPackingCancelled=false&fulfillmentType=ShipToAddress&keyword=ORD0000123 Open Page via Mobile Browser To open the page via the browser on a mobile device, follow the URL format mentioned, on this page and specify the additional URL parameters mentioned below. Note that only those page IDs which mention mobile browser support in the base page ID table below support opening via mobile browser. Mobile-browser specific URL parameters: Pass the mobileBrowser URL parameter as true (&mobileBrowser = true) to designate that the page should be opened via the device's mobile browser rather than the mobile application. Pass the navOff URL parameter as true (&navOff = true) to hide and disable navigation actions on the page, which will allow the store associate to navigate to other screens in the Store application. Pass the storeID URL parameter to skip the store selection screen. Once the associate completes the transaction on the page, they must manually close the browser window. The example URL below links to the Order Details page of Confirm Pickups for a particular Fulfillment ID: https://environment.host.com/storefacade/api/storefacade/storeui/redirect?PageId=pickup-interstitial-page&navOff=true&keyword=FUL0000123&storeid=Store1234&mobileBrowser=true Navigating to Custom Page Custom pages can also be navigated to as long as they correspond to a menu/first-level screen in a flow. In this case, the page ID is set to “custom-page” + [extension ID]. The [extension ID] corresponds to the custom menu ID. Extensions for the custom page can be configured using the existing screenId menu-extensions. Below is an example deep link to a custom menu: https://environment.host.url/storefacade/api/storefacade/storeui/redirect?PageId=custom-page&ExtensionId=Page1. Only custom menu pages created using the metadata/iFrame UI extensibility framework are supported. Custom menus created using the JavaScript extension framework are not supported. Deeplink Login, Store Selection & Logout Handling Login and Store Selection: Deeplink should be used to open the SIM/Store app from any third party application. Store app should be launched using the following deep link URL with valid parameters in order make auto store selection work while launching the application. link: {{url}}/storefacade/api/storefacade/storeui/redirect?storeid=dummy-store-000&allowStoreList=true There are two scenarios here: Valid storeid value is used: If a valid storeid value is used in the above URL and the user has privilege to access that particular store, the user will be navigated to the store as per the store id in URL, upon the launch of the SIM app. Invalid storeid used: If an invalid or dummy storeid is used in the above URL or the user doesn’t have privilege to access the particular store mentioned in the URL, there are 2 sub-scenarios that will be controlled by allowStoreList parameter: If allowStoreList=true: The user will be able to view the store list upon the launch of the SIM application and choose from the list to open a desired store. If allowStoreList=false: The user will not be able to view the store list upon the launch of the SIM application and can not choose from the list to open a desired store. Deep link to activate/open SIM app from external application/third party application: URL link to open Storeapp/SIM Platform Comments link: {{url}}/storefacade/api/storefacade/storeui/redirect?storeid=dummy-store-000&allowStoreList=true iOS/Android/Windows The URL only works for device and when user clicks on such URL from a third party app with SIM app installed in device, the app will be launched and navigated to requested page. User will be asked to login if no active session exists. AllowStoreList parameter will enable store selection on SIM app as explained above. Logout Handling: The SIM app logs out as soon as the user selects logout in the SIM app or the app is killed from the app manager (open apps list). The next launch of SIM app from an external app will require the user to input credentials to login again since no active session exists. Navigating to Base Page The exposed pages which can be deep linked to from custom push notifications or from external links are listed below, along with any optional page-specific parameters that they support. Base page IDs that support deep linking Application Menu / Screen PageId Optional page-specific parameters (with sample values for each parameter) Supports deep linking via mobile browser? Adjust Inventory inventory-adjust-inventory-list No Inventory Audit inventory-audit No New Customer add-customer-minimal No Global Search global-search No Catalog pos-catalog-home No Cart pos-cart (not supported in BOPIS flow since order object is expected) No Prepare Pickups work-default-list &workFlow=pick &isPackingCancelled=false &fulfillmentType=PickupAtStore &keyword={optional search criteria} Note: The keyword parameter can be used to send search criteria data such as fulfillment ID, order ID, customer name, customer phone, and customer email. No Stage Pickups work-default-list &workFlow=stage &fulfillmentType=PickupAtStore No Confirm Pickups work-default-list &workFlow=pickup &fulfillmentType=PickupAtStore &keyword={optional search criteria} Note: The keyword parameter can be used to send search criteria data such as fulfillment ID, order ID, customer name, customer phone, and customer email. No Curbside Pickups work-default-list &workFlow=curbside &fulfillmentType=PickupAtStore &keyword={optional search criteria} Note: The keyword parameter can be used to send search criteria data such as fulfillment ID, order ID, customer name, customer phone, and customer email. No Contact Customer work-default-list &workFlow=contactCustomer &fulfillmentType=PickupAtStore No Prepare Shipments work-default-list &workFlow=pick &isPackingCancelled=false &fulfillmentType=ShipToAddress &keyword={optional search criteria} Note: The keyword parameter can be used to send search criteria data such as fulfillment ID, order ID, customer name, customer phone, and customer email. No Pack Shipments work-default-list &workFlow=pack &isPackingCancelled=false &fulfillmentType=ShipToAddress No Picking Interstitial Screen ( What do you want to do next? - Screen) pick-interstitial-page &taskGroupId=value &deliveryMethod=value &allRejected=false No View Inventory inventory-view-inventory-list &itemId=value &searchQuery=value &isFromViewList=true &filterData=value No Store Initiated Transfers store-transfer-order-list No Pullbacks and Transfers pullback-transfer-order-list No Item Details catalog-item-details &ProductId=value &ProductClass=value &ItemStyle=value&Style=value No Order Details of Confirm Pickups pickup-interstitial-page &mobileBrowser=true &navOff=true &storeid=[store ID value] &keyword={optional search criteria} Note: The keyword parameter can be used to send search criteria data such as fulfillment ID, order ID, customer name, customer phone, and customer email. Yes Navigation Service Store-Location-List "request": { "pageId": "inventory-adjust-inventory-item",  "payload": navParams.data.Item } Yes Order Summary pos-order-summary manhstoreapp://store?PageId=pos-order-summary&OrderId={{value}} Yes