# Store - Scanners

**Permalink:** store-scanner
**Content Length:** 15,356 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:39:16.340430

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Administrator Tools&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store ››Store - Scanners Store - Scanners Camera ScannerCustom plugin to scan barcodeRelaunch Camera ScanDisable Camera ScanZebra Inline ScannerZebra DataWedge Configuration Camera Scanner Manhattan Active&reg; Store uses the default camera scanner of the devices to scan a&nbsp;barcode. This section describes the camera scanning capabilities available inStore application. Retailers can&nbsp;configure certain functions&nbsp;to relaunch the camera scanner automatically after every scan. This is supported for both&nbsp;base camera plugin and custom scanner plugins. The camera scanning capability can be turned off as well. Custom plugin to scan barcode Retailers can now generate the custom mobile build using custom scanner plugins. Some of the barcode formats like Codabar (NW-7) is not supported by the base scanner plugin and to scan such type of barcodes retailers can now use the custom scanner plugins. Perform the below activity as part of the custom build generation: As part of the build generation process, keep the license version of the custom scanner plugin in the custom bit bucket (Cloud bit bucket i.e. publicly accessible or Manhattan&#39;s cloud bit bucket).&nbsp; Configure the custom scanner license key in the custom component KV store and an API will fetch the license key value. Create the custom plugin implementation JS layer which will load the license key and scan method which will be part of the custom extension. Load the plugin from the plugin configurator which will be part of the custom extension or pass the plugin as Jenkins parameter. Generate the build by passing a custom extension artifactory URL in the custom extension URL parameter. Setup the Meta Data configuration with inline extension to let the application know that a custom camera scanner plugin is being used.&nbsp; Below is an example of a metadata configuration for a custom camera scanner plugin.&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ScreenId&quot;: &quot;inline-extensions&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;Extensions&quot;: [ &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ExtensionId&quot;: &quot;ui-extension-camera-scanner&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ExtensionDetail&quot;: [{ &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ExtensionType&quot;: &quot;inline&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;ExtensionProperties&quot;: { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;URL&quot;: &quot;assets/ext/assets/custom-scanner/scanner.js&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;objName&quot;: &quot;customExtensionCameraScanner&quot; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; } &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; }] &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; } &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; ] &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; } Retailers can either use the custom scanner plugin or base scanner plugin to scan the barcodes. Use of custom scanner plugin for specific functions while using the base scanner plugin for the rest is not supported. Relaunch Camera Scan Retailers need to configure the&nbsp;menus&nbsp;in the store common configuration to relaunch the camera scanner during barcode scanning for the particular function.&nbsp;Additionally, if the user wants to relaunch the camera after a certain time interval,&nbsp;they can do so by configuring&nbsp;the&nbsp;time in&nbsp;milliseconds for each menu.&nbsp;When store associates&nbsp;begin&nbsp;scanning, the UI validates whether the menu of this screen&nbsp;and the delay interval is configured&nbsp;for the re-scan (as part of the static data API call, UI gets the list of all the menu IDs&nbsp;and the time interval&nbsp;configured for the re-scan).&nbsp;If menu IDs are configured with the time interval, then&nbsp;the camera scan is re-launched after the defined time window, else the camera scan is re-launched continuously to scan the barcodes. Retailers can also configure the custom menus for camera relaunch. Store associates can use the &#39;EXIT&#39; button to close the camera scanner on iOS devices.&nbsp;&nbsp;If the store associates are using the Android devices, then use the device&#39;s back button to close the camera scanner. For Windows desktop machines, there is no change in the scanner behavior because store associates&nbsp;use&nbsp;the external barcode scanner.&nbsp; If store associates scan a wrong barcode or UI shows any other popup message,&nbsp;then users have to respond to the message&nbsp;and again tap on the camera scanner icon, to continue scanning. If store associates perform additional scans before the UI responds with an error popup,&nbsp;then processing of the additional&nbsp;barcodes will still be successful&nbsp;if the delay time interval is not set for that menuID. When store associates are navigating from the interstitial screen to other screens (for example, after completing the picking of the shipment orders, UI shows the interstitial screen and allows store associates to navigate to the packing screen) then UI decides to&nbsp;relaunch&nbsp;the camera scan based on the configuration settings of the new menu&nbsp;the user navigates to. If a&nbsp;menu&nbsp;is not configured for the camera relaunch then store associates have to tap on the camera scanner icon for every scan. Configuration Details: A new configuration has been added to the Store common configuration UI. Configuration Name:&nbsp;Camera Scanner Click on the Add button to add a list of menus and time&nbsp;interval in milliseconds for a camera launch. By default, none of the menus is configured for camera relaunch. Disable Camera Scan Retailers can choose to disable the default camera scan capability that is available&nbsp;on mobile devices.&nbsp;Configuration determines whether the camera scan is enabled or disabled. By default, the camera scan is always enabled on devices that support it. When disabled, the camera scan icon is hidden on&nbsp;the application screens. This feature applies to all the platforms like iOS,&nbsp;Android and Windows. Note: Store application identifies that the device does not have rear camera and disables the camera scan icon automatically irrespective of the configuration. Configuration Details: A new configuration has been added to the Store common configuration UI. Configuration Name:&nbsp;Enable camera scan.&nbsp; Uncheck the checkbox to disable the camera scan icon on the store application. Zebra Inline Scanner In order for the inline scanner on a Zebra device to interact with the Store app, the DataWedge app must be configured. Those steps are listed below. &nbsp; Note: The screens may look slightly different depending on the device, but the steps are still the same. &nbsp; Open DataWedge app tap on 3 dots and &quot;New profile&quot; to create a custom profile named Stores. Refer to Zebra&#39;s documentation here&nbsp;for more information. (go to Create a Profile). Click on the Stores profile that was just created. Scroll down to the &quot;Intent output&quot; section and set the Intent action to&nbsp;&quot;com.manh.storeui.ACTION&quot;&nbsp;as seen below. For custom builds, replace &quot;manh&quot; as needed with the bundle ID. In the Intent Output section leave the Intent category blank Check the box Enabled in the &quot;Intent output&quot; section Disable Keystroke output option &ndash; Since it overlaps with intent output Scroll to the &quot;Barcode Input&quot; section and confirm the Enabled box is checked Scroll to the very top and confirm the &quot;Profile enabled&quot; checkbox is checked Click on the &quot;Associated apps&quot; option and tap on 3 dots to add the MA Store app. As seen below Associated apps&nbsp;&rarr; New app/activity&nbsp;&rarr; scroll down and select the &quot;com.manh.storeui&quot; app from the drop down. For custom builds, replace &quot;manh&quot; as needed with the bundle ID. Under select activity, tap on &quot;** Restart the Store&nbsp;app Go to a transaction within the app that supports barcode scanning and test out the scanning functionality, the scanner light should turn on and the barcode scanned Note: If scanning issues persist, try disabling the Profile0, so that Stores is used as the default profile. Zebra DataWedge Configuration DataWedge app is a Zebra feature, and we don&#39;t maintain/update the related documentation. Please refer to the Zebra&#39;s DataWedge configuration documentation link below. Follow the steps outlined in Zebra&rsquo;s documentation to create a &ldquo;Store&rdquo; profile. https://techdocs.zebra.com/datawedge/latest/guide/settings/