# Store Order Fulfillment Dashboard

**Permalink:** store-order-fulfillment-dashboard
**Content Length:** 12,318 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:36:48.702630

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Supply Chain Intelligence&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Supply Chain Intelligence - Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Dashboards ››Store Order Fulfillment Dashboard Store Order Fulfillment Dashboard Filtering DataMetric ResultsVisualizations The Store Order Fulfillment Dashboard offers valuable insights into fulfillment data, empowering you to make informed decisions that enhance operational efficiency. Within this dashboard, you can evaluate various metrics and visualizations that present information, including the average order fill rate, cancel rate, average processing and curbside times, comparison of order processing across different locations, and identification of high and low-performing stores. These details equip you to proactively address challenges in your stores and implement strategies to mitigate them. You can access this dashboard&nbsp;in IBM Cognos by navigating to&nbsp;Team Content &gt; SCI Packaged Content &gt; Packaged Dashboards &gt; OMNI &gt; Store Order Fulfillment Dashboard. &nbsp; Filtering Data The following table summarizes the filters available in this dashboard: Filter Name Description Time Filter You can select a time span from the following: Today, Yesterday, Last 7 Days, Last 14 Days, Last 30 Days. This filter derives values from the Fulfillment Ship Date from the &quot;Fulfillment&quot; query subject. You must provide a value in the date filter, or the dashboard may return inaccurate results. Delivery Type This filter includes the following values: Pickup At Store, Ship To Address. It derives values from the Delivery Method table from the Fulfillment query subject. City You can select the city associated with the store order fulfillment record. Store You can select the store associated with the store order fulfillment record. &nbsp; Note: There is an internal filter to include only records where the Fulfillment Min Status &gt;= 5000.000 Metric Results &nbsp; The Metric Results section provides the results for the dimensions filtered as the user selects different values in either visualizations and/or the filter section. The following table provides more details in this section. Metric Name Description Calculation Fill Rate This metric provides the rate at which customer orders are fulfilled.&nbsp; (Fulfill Line Shipped Qty / Fulfill Line Ordered Qty) * 100. Total Orders This metric depicts the distinct count of orders for the filters you select. COUNT Distinct (Fulfillment PK) Cancel Rate This metric identifies the percentage of orders that are canceled&nbsp;compared to the total number of fulfillment orders. (Fulfill Line Cancelled Qty / Fulfill Line Ordered Qty) * 100 Average Processing Time This metric uses the difference between the Fulfillment Ship Date and the Fulfillment Created Date to determine how long it took for an order to be processed. It excludes orders where the Fulfillment Ship Date is not populated. ((case when [Order Fulfillment].[Fulfillment].[Fulfillment Delivery Method] &nbsp;= &#39;PickUpAtStore&#39; then date([Order Fulfillment].[Fulfillment].[Pickup Confirmation Pickup Date] ) else date([Order Fulfillment].[Fulfillment].[Fulfillment Ship Date])&nbsp;- ([Order Fulfillment].[Fulfillment].[Fulfillment Created Timestamp])) / Total Orders &nbsp; Average Curbside Time (Min) The average curbside time is based on the total time between when the customer arrives at the store and the product is delivered to them. PICKED_UP_DATE - PICKUP_ARRIVAL_DATE_TIME = Wait Time For all records, SUM Wait Time / SUM Count Distinct ORDER_ID Visualizations &nbsp; Cognos Dashboard&nbsp;features visualizations of the data, utilizing graphs, charts, maps, and other visual devices that illuminate data results. The dashboard modifies the data displayed based on filters or dimensions that the user selects, allowing for data discovery.&nbsp; By default, the Order Fulfillment Dashboard includes the following visualizations: Orders Processed This area provides the state-wise data for the total number of orders processed. The x-axis denotes states, and the y-axis represents the number of orders. Using this visualization, you can identify locations processing the least number of orders, investigate reasons, and take measures to improve their order processing performance. You can hover over the area for each state to view their order counts.&nbsp; Curbside Times by Date This line visualization identifies how stores performed over time with respect to the curbside time. It includes the following metrics: Average Curbside Time, Maximum Curbside Time, Minimum Curbside Time. The x-axis denotes dates, and the y-axis represents time in minutes. You can hover over the line points to view the specific data for a given date.&nbsp; Top 5 and Bottom 5 Stores These line and column visualizations identify stores with outlier fill rates: either stores with the top fill rates, or the bottom fill rates. The stores are associated with the Fulfillment Ship From Location (on the Fulfillment Query Subject). To provide context, the visualizations also include the Total Orders fulfilled. Note: The visualizations might include more than five stores. This occurs if multiple stores share the same fill rates. Each visualization includes five fill rate values,&nbsp;and those stores that have those fill rates.