# View Store Inventory Process

**Permalink:** store-inventory-process
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Store/Process & Configuration Guides/Store Inventory & Fulfillment/Store Inventory Management/View Store Inventory/Process
**Content Length:** 31,386 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:05:21.331270

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Store››Process & Configuration Guides››Store Inventory & Fulfillment››Store Inventory Management››View Store Inventory ››View Store Inventory Process View Store Inventory Process Inventory SummaryAvailableInventory DetailsInventory by Store DispositionIn-transit InventoryItem ScanningFind Inventory In Nearby StoresIdentify Pickup Store using Google MapsIdentify Pickup Store without Google MapsInventory in ErrorStore Exception ManagementNegative InventoryStore Exception ManagementRFIDHandheld RFIDOverhead RFIDView Inventory - By SublocationInventory Runner - Product RequestsServices Viewing inventory allows store associates to view the inventory of items in the store. This information can be used to plan in-store operational activities such as adjustments. Total on-hand inventory, as well as available quantity, inventory by store disposition and in-transit inventory are available. To know more on the view inventory activity during offline mode, please refer to the Store Offline Support page. Inventory Summary The inventory summary includes high-level information about the item inventory, including the total on-hand and available quantities. It is based on the keyword from the search of the following item attributes: Item Name, SKU, Item Description, Color, Dept, Style and Size. Items with a matching result in any of these attributes will be displayed in the search result. Total In-Stock It represents the current total quantity of the item present in the store, and is obtained from the Inventory component. Total In-Stock (On-Hand) quantity includes any inventory already picked or packed for customer orders. Available Represents the portion of total on-hand inventory that is available to sell. This excludes any inventory that has already been allocated or reserved for customer orders. The available quantity for an item is calculated based on the view configuration for a particular location in the Inventory component. Refer to the Available to Commerce(ATC) process guide for more information. Note: Retailers must define a location-level ATC view to view available units in the store. It is recommended that the ATC view exists without any units protected for the location. In addition, the same location view should be used for the Item Details feature of Point of Sale for consistency. The Get Item Details with Availability service is used to retrieve the items based on the keyword from the Search component, and returns the available and in-stock inventory for each of the item(s.) Inventory Details In addition to the information provided by the inventory summary, inventory by store disposition and in-transit inventory for an item and location are also available. Inventory by Store Disposition Store dispositions refer to characteristics of the store inventory, and are mapped to supply type definitions of the Inventory component through configuration. Supply information defined in the Inventory component is summarized based on this mapping to provide inventory levels for each store disposition at the location. Refer to the Configuration guide for more details. Note :To view inventory by store dispositions, the supply type flag “On Hand supply ” should be set to true in the supply type definition configuration. In-transit Inventory Information about in-transit inventory, including the reference shipment, number of units, and estimated time of arrival are available. The View Inventory Details by Disposition service is used to obtain store disposition and in-transit inventory information for a specific item and location. Note: View inventory screen only displays the store's inventory, which includes (Available, Damaged, and reserved) and In-transit inventory, but it doesn’t show the PO or On Order inventory. For PO or On Order inventory, the retailer has requested the vendor to provide the inventory of items. Item inventory is still with the vendors and they didn't dispatch (ASN) it to stores. So the view inventory screen doesn’t show the inventory which is not available in the stock or not in the “in-transit” state. Item Scanning Store associates can scan another item on the details page using handheld devices. Find Inventory In Nearby Stores In addition to the information provided by the inventory summary at a store, finding inventory of an item at a nearby location(s) is also available irrespective of the order type (Pickup at store, ship from store, ship to store, curbside pickup etc). If a store does not have inventory for an item, then associates are able to look up inventory at nearby stores on the map along with the address and contact information within the specified radius. Store users can view additional attributes such as DisplayId, Address1, City, State, Postal Code, Phone on the Pickup At Store UI, when finding inventory at nearby stores. These additional attributes are helpful to the store users, particularly when the map is not used. Find inventory action is controlled by permission. The following configurations are required to enable this feature in addition to the View Store Inventory Configuration. POS Store Configuration - Location Radius Config Default location radius values are available as search options. Associate can lookup inventory at the locations within the specified radius. Custom radius value can be configured by using Location Search Radius configuration. POS store configuration holds this configuration. Default Radius type = Miles (can be changed to Kms) POS General Configuration - Pickup Store View: Pick up store view, is the business flag with below seed data, only one can be configured at a time: List Only Map Only List and Map, list Default List and Map, Map Default Note: Handheld form factor supports only List , therefore if Map view is configured, then handheld will still display list view. POS General Configuration ATC view: ATC views must be configured and also specified in the POS General Configuration Default Network Availability view - The view Id must be configured here Default location Availability view - The view Id must be configured here It is required to configure both the views mentioned above. Location availability view is used for inventory at logged in store and network view is required for getting inventory at nearby stores within the network. Auto suggestion interval Below config is used for auto search suggestion for searching based on city, state, zip etc. AutoComplete wait interval in milliseconds: Default value = 500 Note: Google map search call cannot be turned off. Identify Pickup Store using Google Maps In order to use the map view on the Pickup at Store UI, the retailer must configure their Google Maps API key for the Store application to use. The key is also required in order for the application to display suggested results based on the input entered in the search bar. The list view on the UI does not require the Google Map API key, and can be used if a key is not configured. Refer to the configuration guide for additional information. Identify Pickup Store without Google Maps If the retailer does not have a googleMaps license and is not using the map view but just the list view then finding the inventory of an item at a nearby location(s) is performed using the internal MAO "Geo" component. However, in order for this to work, the Geo component must be loaded with all the data (city, state, zip code, latitude and longitude) for a given country. Component Geo expectations: All the retailer locations should have data for city, state, zip code, latitude and longitude in the database. This will be required for store look up and for geo-location sourcing to work properly. Base application seed data provides sample data for the United States, Great Britain and France. It is strongly recommended for the customers to establish a reliable external source for this data and to build a plan to refresh this data on a periodic basis. Please note that if a retailer is serving other countries, then this data needs to be created. To check the postal code/GPS coordinates exist for a country. API: GET : {{url}}/geo/api/geo/zipdetails/{{country code in 2 letters}}/{{postal code}} Token: System admin Upload the postal code and relevant data in geo component. Uploading data to the Geo component, an API is exposed to load csv data from a file. POST: {{url}}/geo/api/geo/loaddata To upload data in the Geo component, an API is exposed to load csv data from a file. POST: {{url}}/geo/api/geo/loaddata Note: Use the base seed data to validate the formatting of the csv. Inventory in Error When items are shorted during picking or packing, the items are marked in error in the Active Inventory application. An indicator displays for any items that are marked in error, and a filter is also available. Based on permissions, store associates can perform the following actions on the items in: Resolve the error.  This action resets the error flag on the inventory record. Mark the item as out of stock. This action updates the inventory to 0. This also resets the inventory error flag if it was set to true. Adjust the inventory level of the item to the desired quantity. This also resets the inventory error flag if it was set to true. The View Inventory filter as well as the Resolve Error, Out of Stock and Adjust Inventory actions are all controlled by permissions. Refer to the Store Inventory UI Resources page for additional information. Store Exception Management The Store Exception Management UI can be configured to display items which are marked in error so that store managers can have visibility of these issues for quick resolution. Based on permissions, the user can navigate directly from the Store Exception Management UI to the View Inventory UI where the list of items that are marked in error is displayed. Refer to the Inventory in Error section for additional information. Refer to the Store Exception Management guide for additional information, including configuration and permissions needed. Store associates can see the record of resolved items on the Inventory Audit screen.  Refer to the Inventory audit process guide for more information. Negative Inventory View Inventory UI provides visibility for items which have negative inventory. An indicator displays for any items with a negative quantity, and a filter is also available. Based on permissions, store associates can perform the following actions: Mark the item as out of stock, which updates the inventory quantity to 0. This also reset the inventory error flag if it was set to true. Adjust the inventory level of the item to the desired quantity. This also reset the inventory error flag if it was set to true. The View Inventory filter, Out of Stock and Adjust Inventory actions are both controlled by permission. Refer to the Store Inventory UI Resources page for additional information. Store Exception Management The Store Exception Management UI can be configured to display items which have a negative quantity so that the store managers can have visibility of these issues for quick resolution. Based on permission, the user can navigate directly from the Store Exception Management UI to the View Inventory UI where the list of items that have a negative quantity is displayed. Refer to the Negative Inventory section for additional information. Refer to the Store Exception Management guide for additional information, including configuration and permissions needed. Store associates can see the record of those items that are marked as "Out of Stock" on the Inventory Audit screen. Refer to the Inventory audit process guide for more information. Note: If the item is marked in error and it also has a negative inventory, then the item will be listed in both exceptions. Inventory in Error Using the store exceptions, the users can click on Inventory in error to load the view inventory - by sublocation screen to list all items for the store that are marked in error. The list of items is fetched from inventory supply, the inventory details for each item are fetched from unit inventory. Each sublocation in the details section supports a swipe action. If the user has the appropriate permissions, the user can perform the following actions. The actions performed are applied to the whole disposition and not just to the sublocation. Resolve the error.  This action resets the error flag in supply. No updates made to unit inventory Mark the item as out of stock. This action is currently disabled in this mode. The View Inventory filter as well as the Resolve Error and Out of Stock are all controlled by permissions. Refer to the Store Inventory UI Resources page for additional information. Negative Inventory View Inventory UI provides visibility for items which have negative inventory. An indicator displays any items with a negative quantity, and a filter is also available. Based on permission, store associates can perform the following actions: Mark the item as out of stock. This action is currently disabled in this mode. The View Inventory filter and Out of Stock are both controlled by permission. Refer to the Store Inventory UI Resources page for additional information. RFID Handheld RFID Store associates can use a handheld RFID reader to view the inventory of items in the store instead of scanning the item barcode. In the event that multiple tags are read by the reader, the corresponding item for the first tag that is read is selected. If the RFID tag cannot be read, users have the option to scan EPC or SGTIN barcode, if present. Refer to the Store RFID guide for more information and configuration. Store associates can also utilize a handheld RFID reader if they need assistance locating an item. Refer to the Store RFID guide for more information and configuration information. Overhead RFID The View on Map function in the View Inventory screen allows an associate to view the latest known location of item inventory on a store layout map. This can be used to find the nearest unit of an item, or to locate a unit which isn't where it should be. Refer to the Store Inventory UI Resources page to assign the permission needed to enable this function. For more details, refer to the Overhead RFID section in the Store RFID guide. View Inventory - By Sublocation When a store maintains inventory by sublocations, the View Inventory UI operates in a sublocation mode. In this mode, inventory details for the item are shown at the sublocation level. The UI displays information in two buckets: "In Stock" - This contains units whose disposition / supply type is considered on hand inventory. In this mode, "In Stock" data is obtained from the Unit Inventory table rather than Inventory Supply like it would be for non-RFID stores or stores that do not track inventory at the sublocation level. This section shows the breakup of inventory by store dispositions. Within a store disposition, the inventory is further broken down by sublocation. If there are no units for a sublocation, a zero is displayed. If there are any units in the store which do not have a sublocation tagged, those units will show as "No Sublocation". "In Transit" - Units that are dispositioned as in transit. In this mode, "In Transit" data is obtained from Inventory Supply as it normally is. In this mode, item and availability information continue to be based on the ATC view that is configured. Inventory Runner - Product Requests For situations where a customer demands an item which is not available in the storefront but is available in the backroom and the store associate wants to keep the customer engaged while the required item is moved from the backroom to the storefront, the associate attending to the customer can request fellow associates (also known as runners) to fetch the required item for them. This not only helps the retailers deliver exceptional service to their customers but also helps them increase their overall engagement with them. Store associates can place product requests using the Manhattan Active® Omni Store Inventory Management’s View Inventory UI and the Manhattan Active® Omni Iris Point of Sale’s Catalog Product Details Page. Using the MA Omni Store Inventory Management, any store associate who has the required permission can request a product by tapping on the “Request Product” option provided as part of the more menu in the View Inventory UI. This opens up a “Request Product” popup which displays details, such as the item’s image, short description, SKU (Item ID), style, color, and size, of the product being requested. Moreover, as part of the process, the store associate is required to provide the location at which the runner is supposed to deliver the requested product. The delivery location is populated as the requestor’s name by default. If the requester’s name is not configured, then their user ID is displayed. However, retailers may optionally configure Store Product Requests Locations, which are also displayed as part of the delivery location drop-down list in addition to the requestor’s name / user ID. If no Store Product Request Locations are configured, then only the requestor’s name / user ID is displayed and the drop-down list is non-editable. Once the store associate is done verifying / entering the item / delivery location details, they can tap on the “Send Request” button to create the product request. A synchronous success toast notification is displayed to the store associate as soon as the request is created. However, if something goes wrong, a failure toast notification is displayed. On successful product request creation, a push notification is triggered to all the users in the store except the requestor themselves. Any available store associate who has the required permissions assigned to them can tap on the “VIEW” button in the push notification, head on to the “Product Requests” UI and execute the request on the requestor’s behalf. For more information on how product requests work, refer to this page. Services The APIs listed in the following table are referenced in this document. Refer to the API documentation for additional details on each service. Service Component Group Service Endpoint Get Item Details with Availability SIM store-inventory-process-controller /sim/api/sim/storeInventory/itemsearch View Inventory Details by Disposition SIM store-inventory-process controller /sim/api/sim/storeInventory/itemDetails/itemId/{itemId} Get the Device Coordinates StoreRFID Store rfid services /storerfid/api/storerfid/getDeviceCurrentLocationCoordinates Get RFID Location Coordinates by ItemId Fulfillment fulfillment-list-controller /fulfillment/api/fulfillment/fulfillment/rfid/locationCoordinates Find Inventory at Near by Stores POSService item-service-controller posservice/api/posservice/getItemAvailabilityByPickUpAtStore Get Item Details for inventory in error SIM store-inventory-process-controller /sim/api/sim/storeInventory/itemsearch?includeOnlyErroredItems=true Get Item Details for Negative Inventory SIM store-inventory-process-controller /sim/api/sim/storeInventory/itemsearch?includeNegativeInventoryItem=true Get the count of items that are marked for error Store Facade Store-common-controller /storefacade/api/storefacade/storecommon/storeExceptionsCount Get the count of items that have negative inventory Store Facade Store-common-controller /storefacade/api/storefacade/storecommon/storeExceptionsCount Resolve error from item or mark item out of stock SIM store-inventory-process-controller /sim/api/sim/inventory/rectifyInventory