# Store Count

**Permalink:** store-count
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Store/Process & Configuration Guides/Store Inventory & Fulfillment/Store Inventory Management/Store Count
**Content Length:** 44,100 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:05:15.310467

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Store››Process & Configuration Guides››Store Inventory & Fulfillment››Store Inventory Management ››Store Count Store Count OverviewProcessCountingOverheadUpdatesExceptionsCount VisibilityUnit Inventory ExceptionPhased RFID EnablementCounting Process for Phased RFIDSummary ScreenMissing (Available) - Details ScreenUpdatesExceptionsCount by SublocationCounting ProcessTags Read CountSubmitCancelDetermine SublocationsConfigurationEnabling RFID Store CountMinimum Submit PercentageOverhead Read Expiry ThresholdCount by SublocationHours after which an in progress store count should be cancelledDetermine Sublocation ConfigurationPercentage of units allowed from other locationsTroubleshootingUIs and EntitiesServices Overview Maintaining inventory accuracy is one of the biggest challenges retailers face regularly. Administrative errors, shrinkage and stock movements can cause discrepancies between the expected inventory level tracked by the inventory management system and the actual store inventory. The ability for store personnel to count merchandise on a regular basis is key to resolving these discrepancies and correcting the inventory levels. Manhattan's Store Inventory offers two different processes to perform a physical counting of the store. If the store does not have RFID enabled, then the physical counting can be performed using cycle counting. For RFID enabled stores, the store count process can be performed. Store count is a process that is similar to cycle counting, which can only be performed using a RFID reader, either handled, overhead or both. The store count process is much faster to perform than a cycle count and is not as laborious. The store count is a separate UI controlled by permissions. Store count supports stores that have a mix of tagged and non-tagged items. Store Counts sends supply updates for all those units which have an RFID tag on and whose item masters have the required GTIN14 configuration in place, irrespective of whether they have the Is RFID Tagged attribute true or false. The store can use traditional cycle counting to count all non-RFID tracked items. Note: If the item is tagged with RFID tags ("Is RFID Tagged" is set to true in the Item Master), don't change the status to false until the store has the item's RFID tagged inventory. Note: Users should be provisioned with all the resources that are listed under store count. Store associates can perform a store count by using handheld RFID readers to read unit-level tags. Counting via handheld readers allows retailers to count store inventory in a fraction of the time compared traditional barcode scanning. The associate is provided with audio and visual feedback as tags are being read along with the overall count progress. Multiple store associates can count the store simultaneously. Store count operates in two modes: initial store load mode - The first count that is conducted for the store and any others that occur over the next 3 days operate in this mode. Initial store load mode behaves in the same manner as store count mode (see below), except that any new/unexpected tags are updated to "'Available" status and are included in the supply event. Store associates have the ability to remove new tags from the count prior to submitting. Store count mode - After the first 3 days for the store, any subsequent counts operate in store count mode. The counted units, expected units, missing units, and found previously missed units information is displayed to the store associates. Any new/unexpected tags are added to the Unit Inventory table in "Unexpected" status, but are not updated to "Available" status and are not included in the supply event. Item information is available for missing and found previously missed tags. A configuration defines the minimum count percentage that must be met in order to submit the count to prevent unintentional inventory updates. A UI is available for corporate users to monitor the count status. To prevent a store associate from inadvertently submitting a count for an incorrect store, a configuration can be set to define the number of known tags that can be added from other locations as part of the count. If this threshold is exceeded, a warning message is displayed. The user has the choice to return to the count so that they can cancel, or submit the count updates. The logged-in store is also displayed to the user when they begin the counting process. Note: The incorrect store warning message only takes into account tags that will be added from other stores in the same organization. It does not identify tags that reside in stores of other organizations. Stores with overhead readers can leverage those during the store count so that tags which have been recently read by overhead can be considered as counted without needing to be detected by a handheld reader. Associates can then focus their efforts on locating any remaining tags which the overhead reader has not recently read. A configuration defines how recently an overhead read is considered current. Refer to the Store RFID guide for additional information about RFID support in store. Note: Store count performs a full sync to the Inventory supply tables. Any untagged items would be marked for review in the Inventory Supply tables. Note: To know more on the  store count  activity during offline mode, please refer to the Store Offline Support page. Process Counting When the user navigates to the Store count screen from the home menu, the user is prompted to pull the trigger on the handheld RFID device to begin counting using the handheld device. The Location ID of the logged-in store is also displayed to enable the user to validate that they have selected the right store in case they have access to more than one store. To start the store count, the associate pulls the trigger on the RFID device and releases it. The reader will read tags until the trigger is pressed again which ends reading mode. Multiple associates can contribute to the same store count simultaneously. The RFID reader's default range is "long," allowing it to read RFID tags in a large number. Once the count begins, the UI displays the number of tags which have been read by the device along with the percentage of expected tags which have been counted. If multiple associates are working on the store count, the cumulative progress is shown to all users. Note: Users can continue counting if their device loses network connectivity. During these periods, the tag reads are stored on the device and the read count on the UI increases. The updated donut progress is not reflected until connectivity is restored. Connectivity is required to start the count, view the Summary information (by pressing the 'Done' button) and to submit the count. A maximum of one count can be active (in progress) for a store at one time. When the Store Count UI is opened, if a store count does not already exist in "In Progress" status for the store, one is immediately created when user pulls the trigger on the RFID device. If one already exists, that count and its progress are loaded onto the screen upon pulling the trigger. A configuration determines how long a count can remain in "In Progress" status before it is considered stale. Once a count is considered stale, the next store associate who attempts to count in that store will be required to cancel the open count and begin a new one. A store associate cannot continue counting a stale count. Once the associate stops reading tags, they can navigate to the summary screen. In the initial store load, the summary screen displays the number of expected versus counted units as well as the missing available, missing reserved, and new units. In the store count mode, the summary screen displays the number of expected versus counted units as well as the missing available, missing reserved, new and found units (found units that were previously missing). The summary screen also displays the store count duration, showing how long it has been since the count was initiated. If the associate returns to count any missing units before submitting, the duration will be updated. Expected: The expected count is the sum of all tags in the store in "Available" and "Reserved" status. If multiple users are counting, this includes the progress of all users. Read: The number of tags which have been read by this device. This includes any RFID tags which do not correspond to an item in the item master. If the associate begins counting and exits the Store Count menu to perform another function, the read count is reset to 0 but the tags that they previously read are saved in the system. Missing Available: Any tags in "Available" status which have not been read by the reader are shown to the user in this group. If multiple users are counting, this considers the progress of all users. If at least one unit is shown as missing available, the user can tap to see the list of items which have missing items. This item list is sorted in descending order of missing quantity. The item with the highest number of missing units is listed first, followed by all subsequent items. Missing Reserved: Any tags in "Reserved" status which have not been read by the reader are shown to the user in this group. If multiple users are counting, this considers the progress of all users. If at least one unit is shown as missing reserved, the user can tap to see the list of items which have missing items. Items are grouped based on the fulfillment type and within the groups, items are sorted based on the missing units in descending order. The item with the highest number of missing units is listed first, followed by all subsequent items. Fulfillment groups are: Store Pickup (Includes: BOPIS Orders, Ship To Store Pickup Orders and Same day Delivery Orders), Ship from Store ( Includes: Ship to address Orders and Ship to store Orders), Pullback/Transfer. Store Initiated Transfers. New: The number of tags that the device has read when in initial store load mode. If at least one unit is shown as new, the user can tap to see the list of items which have new tags. This is only shown in initial store load mode. Based on permissions, associates have the ability to remove new tags for items so they are not included in the count, if desired. Found: This is the list of tags that were previously marked as "Missing". If multiple users are counting, this considers the progress of all users. Ignored tags: Any tags which the reader picks up that have never been seen in "Inbound", "Departed", "Pending Receipt", "Removed", or "Unexpected" statuses are ignored from the count. The progress of the counted units is displayed when the store associate navigates from the store count screen to another screen and then back again. Note : If an EPC feed is not in place for shipments, the retailer should have an SOP in place to receive all inventory that is physically present in the store prior to starting the store count, or to shield those tags from the reader. In the initial store load mode, if the store does not complete the receiving process and the reader reads the shipment units, the corresponding unit tags will be added to the Unit Inventory table with an 'Available' status. However, in store count mode, those tags will be added with an 'Unexpected' status. Note : If the store maintains inventory by dispositions like 'Damaged', 'Display Stock' etc., the following steps should be followed during cutover to RFID. All the dispositions must be updated to 0 units in supply for the store before performing the store count After performing the store count, perform a movement transaction from Sellable to the appropriate disposition using Inventory Adjustment Overhead When the store associate enters the Store Count UI, if the overhead configuration is configured, all tags with an OverheadLastReadTime value that falls within the configured threshold are preloaded in the progress donut as counted. For example, if the overhead configuration is set to 120 minutes and the associate initiates a store count at 6AM, all tags with OverHeadLastReadTime from 4AM onwards are considered as counted. The progress chart might preload to 97%, and the associate can focus on using the handheld to find and count the remaining 3%. Updates When the store associate submits the first initial store load count, the units are added with the status "Available", and the last read date/time and Count ID are updated. When a store associate conducts a store load count after successfully submitting the first initial store load count and counted units are lower than the configured threshold of allowed units during the submission of the store count, an error message is displayed to the store associate. Moreover, if enabled, a warning is displayed to the store associate if the percentage of units belonging to locations other than that selected by the user exceeds the configured threshold. Refer to the Configuration section below for more information. When the store load count is submitted, the following updates occur: For expected units that are counted, the last read date/time and Count ID are updated. For unexpected units, the units are added to the table in status "Available" with the Count ID populated. Expected units that are not counted are updated to "Missing" status. Units that were missing from a previous count which are counted (Found units) are updated to "Available" status. No updates are made to the disposition or supply type attributes. Supply events are sent to the Inventory component for each item/supply type combination in the store using the full sync job. The number of tags in "Available" or "Reserved" status which were counted for the item/supply type are sent in the full sync. If all tags for the item/supply type are in "Missing" status, that entry will be zeroed out in the Supply table. All untagged items are marked for review in the Inventory Supply table. When the store count is submitted, the following updates occur: For expected units that are counted, the last read date/time and Count ID are updated. For unexpected units, the units are added to the table in status "Unexpected" with the Count ID populated. Expected units that are not counted are updated to "Missing" status. Units that were missing from a previous count which are counted (Found units) are updated to "Available" status. No updates are made to the disposition or supply type attributes. Supply events are sent to the Inventory component for each item/supply type combination in the store using the full sync job. The number of tags in "Available" or "Reserved" status which were counted for the item/supply type are sent in the full sync. If all tags for the item/supply type are in "Missing" status, that entry will be zeroed out in the Supply table. All untagged items are marked for review in the Inventory Supply table. Note: Supply event excludes units that are in "Inbound", "Pending Receipt", "Unexpected", "Departed", or "Removed" states. When multiple users are counting in the same store, if one of the users Submits or Cancels the count, all the other users who are on the counting screen are notified that the count is already submitted or cancelled and navigated back to the Home screen. If the other users in the count process are in the summary or details screen, they are notified as soon as they navigate back to the counting screen. Exceptions If a tag whose status <> "Inbound" is read that was previously counted in a different location, the tag is moved to the current store and included in the count. The tag's location ID is updated to the current store, and its status is updated to "Unexpected". The user is able to leave the Store Count UI and come back later. Once they return back their read count is reset to zero but the tags which they have previously read are still intact and reflected in the percentage summary on the screen. If the user wishes to cancel the store count, a permission controlled cancel action is available on the UI. This updates the count to "Cancelled" status and cancels the entire store count and the progress made by any users who contributed to the count. If a user cancels a stale count, the count is also updated to "Cancelled" status. If more than one user attempts to submit or cancel the store count, only one of the requests is processed and the second user is notified with a message that the store count is already submitted or cancelled. The user is also taken back to the Home screen. Count Visibility Corporate administrators with the appropriate menu permissions can view the status of counts using the Store Count UI. Store counts have the following statuses: In Progress - The store count has been created, meaning at least one tag has been read by a device. Submitted - The store count has been submitted from the UI and is awaiting the inventory sync job to complete. Completed - The inventory sync job is complete and was successful. Failed - The inventory sync job is complete and failed. Cancelled - The store count was cancelled by an associate prior to submission. The following information is shown for each store count: Store Load - True or False (If the count is store load, then it shows Store Load - True). Counted Units - Total number of counted units by store associates. Expected Units - Total number of expected units. Missed Units that were in Available status. Missed Units that were in Reserved status. New Units. Found previously Missed Units. Undecodable Units. Unmapped Item Units. Counted by - The "Counted by" section displays information about each store associate if more than one store associate worked on the same store count. Unit Inventory Exception Corporate administrators with the appropriate menu permissions can view the store count exceptions using the Unit Inventory Exception UI. Unit Inventory Exception UI has the following information: List of missing units with Item details. List of found units (which were previously missing) with Item details. List of non-decodable units. List of units that are not mapped with items. Apply filter based on the transaction type, such as "Store Count", Transaction Type ID i.e. Store Count ID, EPC ID, SGTIN, Location ID. Phased RFID Enablement As an initial first step, a retailer can enable RFID only for the store count function before rolling it out to other store inventory, store fulfillment and point of sale functions. When RFID is only enabled for store counting, the expected quantity is obtained from inventory supply rather than the Unit Inventory table. Refer to the configuration section for further information. Note: The following are recommended to ensure improved accuracy in counting: All store sales, returns and receipts are all synced to inventory supply before performing the store count. To avoid adding the package contents back to inventory supply, ensure that any packages which have been systematically shipped but are still in the store awaiting carrier pickup are not read during store counts. Counting Process for Phased RFID In phased mode, the expected count is shown as the total count for all RFID-tracked items in the store from the inventory supply. The expected count is obtained when the count is created, and is not updated or refreshed during the duration of the count. Note: Any supply type that is marked as on-hand is considered as an on-hand supply. Items that are marked as infinite supply for that store are excluded from the expected count. Note: The on-hand quantity is only fetched for items that are marked as "Is RFID Tagged" = true in the Item Master. Items marked as false or null are not included. The counting screen displays count information that is aggregated across all units and items in the store: Counted units - The number of units that were counted based on the number that were expected. When operating in phased mode, tags which previously existed in the store as well as new tags are both included. This also includes any units that systematically belong to a different location, but were physically present in the store during the count. Previously found missing units that were found are not included in counted units. Expected units - Sum of the on-hand quantity for all RFID tracked items in the store from the Supply table. Count progress - Counted units / Expected units. When the user has counted all the areas in the store, they can navigate to the summary screen by clicking on the 'Done' button. Note: In this mode, the count percentage must be greater than or equal to 85% before the Done button is only enabled. Summary Screen The summary screen displays count information that is aggregated across all units and items in the store. Counted units - Same value as shown on the count screen. See above. Expected units - Same value as shown on the count screen. See above. Count progress - Same value as shown on the count screen. See above. Missing (Available) units - Calculated as the Expected units (above) minus the Counted Units (above.) If less than 0, 0 is displayed. Note that the units marked on this screen as missing may have left the store via normal store operations such as a POS sale, customer order fulfillment or transfers and may not be truly missing. To view the actual information on which items have missing units, navigate to the Missing (Available) details UI. Missing (Reserved) units - Always zero in this mode. New units - Always zero in this mode. Found units - Units that were counted which were previously marked as "Missing" in this store. Missing (Available) - Details Screen When the user navigates to the Missing (Available) details screen, the actual tags counted for each item are compared to the expected supply for that item. If the values differ, they appear on this list and are sorted in the descending quantity missing. If the values are the same, the item is not shown on the list. Updates Once the user has counted the store and submits the count, the submit process is the same as explained above. In this mode updates are the same as those made in Initial store load mode. Exceptions If a tag whose status <> "Inbound" is read that was previously counted in a different location, the tag is moved to the current store and included in the count. The tag's location ID is updated to the current store, and its status is updated to "Available". On the count summary UI, these units are included under the Counted units. In the Store Count MUP UI, they are categorized separately as "Different Location Units". Count by Sublocation Counting by sublocations supports stores that automatically replenish inventory from non-selling to selling areas (see Replenishment guide for additional information.) If sublocations are defined in the store, the Store count UI displays a list of sublocations for the user to select where they are counting. Refer to the configuration section for further information. Note: This feature is not supported with the phased RFID enablement capability. Counting Process When a user navigates opens the Store Count UI, a landing page is displayed with a list of sublocations configured for the store. The user selects the sublocation and then begins counting. Once the user completes counting the first sublocation, they can then count the second sublocation. The count is only allowed to be submitted once the entire store is counted. In this counting mode, the expected count, counted count and count progress are all shown for the current sublocation. However, the read count represents the number of unique tags read for the count on the device regardless of sublocation. Once the user is finished counting the units in a sublocation, they click on 'Review' to view the count summary for that sublocation. The user clicks on 'Done' once they are ready to select the next sublocation to count. Tags Read Count Based on a permission, associates can view and hide the tag read count on the Store Count UI. If the user has permission, the Tags Read section is displayed and collapsed. If the associate wishes to view the tag read count, they can tap on the Tags Read header to expand the section. If the user doesn't have the permission, the Tags Read section isn't displayed on the screen. Refer to the Store Inventory UI Resources section for additional information. Submit Counts for all sublocations must be complete before a count can be submitted. Once all sublocations have been counted, the user can review the counts for the entire store by clicking on 'Review and Submit' button. The user is taken to a store count summary page which displays the count summary across all sublocations in the store. From here they can submit the count. Note: In this mode the minimum submit percentage configuration is applied to the entire store count, not individually to each sublocation. Note: In this mode, the configuration to evaluate the percentage of units which belong to locations other than that selected by the user is evaluated on final submit of the store count. It is not done for each sublocation. Cancel Users have the ability to cancel a count from the Counting UI. This will cancel the entire count across all sublocations in the store. Note that a tag's sublocation is immediately updated as soon as it is read during counting. This is retained even if the count is cancelled. Determine Sublocations Stores without physical shielding can perform store counts by sublocation using the Determine sublocation functionality. This enables all RFID-enabled retailers to take advantage of the replenishment of selling areas from non-selling areas. Store associates execute a determine sublocation count in the same manner as any other sublocation count. If the same tag is read in more than one sublocation, the "winning" sublocation is determined based on where the strongest read signal was obtained. The accuracy of sublocation determination is affected by external factors such as radio spectrum interference, building layout and construction, tag composition, reader signal strength and number of tag reads obtained. We expect accuracy ranging from 90-99% depending on these factors. The functionality is controlled by a business level flag that is disabled by default (see the configuration section for additional information.) Note: When performing a store count using sublocation determination, the RFID reader must be configured to operate in Session 1. Configuration Ensure that the purposes listed below have been copied from the base profile to your custom profile. Profile purposes to copy from base to custom profile srf::rfConfig, srf::batch, srf::messaging The configuration below can be enabled to all stores in the organization, or can be overridden at the store profile type or location level. Refer to this Config UI guide for additional details. The corresponding profile purposes are listed below. Enabling RFID Store Count Refer to the configuration here. Minimum Submit Percentage The business configuration of the minimum percentage required to submit the store count is available in the Store RFID Parameters UI. Configuration Name: Minimum percentage required to submit store count By default, it is set to 90. If the threshold is not configured or if it's configured to 0, it will be treated as the default 90. Overhead Read Expiry Threshold The business configuration of what overhead reads are considered valid is available in the Overhead section of the Store RFID Configuration UI. Configuration Name: Overhead read expiry threshold The threshold is defined in minutes. Store count will leverage overage reads if this value is set to a number greater than 0. If this value is 0 or null, the feature is disabled. By default, this value is null. Count by Sublocation Refer to configuration here. Hours after which an in progress store count should be cancelled This configuration defines the threshold after which an "In Progress" store count is considered stale. This configuration resides in the Store Count Configuration subsection of the Store RFID Configuration UI. Configuration Name: Hours after which an in progress store count should be cancelled This configuration is enabled by default and is defaulted to 8 hours out of the box. If a retailer wishes to disable stale count cancellation, set this value to null. Determine Sublocation Configuration Determine sublocation functionality is controlled by a business parameter in Store RFID configuration. The 'Predict Sublocation' Flag should be true to use determine sublocation functionality. The flag is disabled by default. Percentage of units allowed from other locations This configuration defines the percentage of units which can be submitted as part of a store count which currently belong to locations other than the user's logged-in location. If this configuration is exceeded, then a warning message is thrown to the user, and it is meant to ensure that they haven't inadvertently logged in to a location other than their current physical location. This configuration resides in the Store Count Configuration subsection of the Store RFID Configuration UI. Configuration Name: Percentage of units allowed from other locations This configuration is set as null out of the box, which implies that it's disabled. If this configuration needs to be enabled, then set a % value equal to or greater than zero. A zero configuration signifies zero tolerance for any units belonging to other locations. In other words, even if 1 unit belonging to another location is submitted as part of a store count, a warning message is displayed to the store associate. Troubleshooting Issue Troubleshooting Tip Inventory is not updated in supply after the store count Ensure that the batch job 'UnitInventorySyncJob' is configured in the custom profile. If not, make sure the custom profile is correctly copied from the base profile. UIs and Entities The configuration UIs mentioned in this document are listed in the following table. This information can be used to navigate to API documentation and also specifies whether the configuration can be overridden at the location level. UI Name Component Group Seed Data Present? Seed Data Profile Profile Purpose Is Profile Purpose Location Overrideable? Store RFID Configuration Store RFID Store RFID Config Services Yes Base srf::rfConfig Yes Services The APIs listed in the following table are referenced in this document. Refer to the API documentation for additional details on each service. Service Component Group Service Endpoint Create Store Count Store RFID Store Count Controller /storerfid/api/storerfid/storeCount/create Get Missing Count Store RFID Store Count Controller /storerfid/api/storerfid/storeCount/summary/missing/countId/{countId} Get Unexpected Count Store RFID Store Count Controller /storerfid/api/storerfid/storeCount/summary/unexpected/countId/{countId} Inventory Sync Store RFID Store Count Controller /storerfid/api/storerfid/unitInventory/inventorySummary Save intermittent count Store RFID Store Count Controller /storerfid/api/storerfid/storerfid/storeCount/saveCount Submit Store Count Store RFID Store Count Controller /storerfid/api/storerfid/storerfid/storeCount/complete Summary of Store Count Store RFID Store Count Controller /storerfid/api/storerfid/storerfid/storeCount/summary/countId/{countId}