# Store Productivity Dashboard

**Permalink:** store-productivity-dashboard
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Supply Chain Intelligence/Supply Chain Intelligence - Omni/Dashboards/Store Productivity Dashboard
**Content Length:** 24,278 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:06:15.855343

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Supply Chain Intelligence››Supply Chain Intelligence - Omni››Dashboards ››Store Productivity Dashboard Store Productivity Dashboard OverviewStore Productivity TabFilters in Store Productivity Tab Metrics in Store Productivity TabVisualizations in Store Productivity TabUser Productivity Tab Filters in User Productivity TabMetrics in User Productivity TabVisualizations in User Productivity Tab Overview Operational SCI for Manhattan Active® Omni includes the Store Productivity Dashboard. This dashboard provides visibility into the store order fulfillment performance, focusing on the picking and packing activities across multiple stores and associates. This dashboard contains Store and User productivity tabs that provide information on the total number of units picked and packed, units rejected, duration, top/bottom performers, and more. Store executives/managers can use this dashboard to evaluate performance and take corrective actions or provide necessary training opportunities to improve the overall efficiency of store fulfillment activities. This dashboard contains picking and packing data, and you can apply different filters based on your reporting requirements. You can access the Store Productivity Dashboard in IBM Cognos by navigating to Team Content > SCI Packaged Content > Packaged Dashboards > OMNI > Store Productivity Dashboard. The following sections provide more information in detail. Store Productivity Tab This tab displays the productivity metrics and visualizations holistically for stores. Regional managers managing multiple stores can view the productivity information at the store level and compare the data by applying appropriate filters. Filters in Store Productivity Tab The following table explains the different filters that you can apply on the dashboard, and it returns the data that meets the filter condition: Filter Description Store This filter returns the data of the store(s) of your choosing. Activity This filter gives you the option to select store activities, Pick and Pack. Store Computed On Date This filter gives you the option to select a date range for which you want to view the store data. Store Computed Last Week This filter gives you the option to select last week from the list. Store Computed Last Month This filter gives you the option to select monlty from the list. Metrics in Store Productivity Tab The Metrics section provides the results for the dimensions filtered as you select different values in either visualization or the filter section. The following table summarizes the metrics included in the Store Productivity Tab: Metric Name Query Subject/Query Subject Item Description Store Picking UPH TMC_STORE_PRODUCTIVITY/UPH Rate This data represents the average number of units stores pick up in an hour. Store Packing UPH TMC_STORE_PRODUCTIVITY/UPH Rate This data represents the average number of units stores pack in an hour. Store Completed Units TMC_STORE_PRODUCTIVITY/TOTAL_COMPLETED_UNITS This data represents the total number of units completed by stores. Store Active Duration TMC_STORE_PRODUCTIVITY/TOTAL_ACTIVE_DURATION This data represents the number of hours the stores are active. Store Rejection Rate TMC_STORE_PRODUCTIVITY/Percent Rejected This metric displays the percentage of units rejected by the store out of completed units. Store Rejected Units TMC_STORE_PRODUCTIVITY/TOTAL_REJECTED_UNITS This data represents the number of units rejected by the store. Store UPH TMC_STORE_PRODUCTIVITY Visualizations in Store Productivity Tab The Store Productivity Dashboard includes interactive visualizations that return data based on the selection of data points. The following sections summarize the different visualizations in the Store tab: Average UPH Rates for All Stores: This line visualization displays the average rate of units packed and picked per hour across stores. The x-axis represents the Store Computed On dates you have selected in the filter, and the y-axis represents the number of units. This visualization helps you view the trend of picked activities against the packed ones. Top and Bottom 10 Stores by Picking UPH: These column visualizations display the top and bottom stores with the highest and lowest units picked. The x-axis indicates stores, and the y-axis, the number of units. You can view the specific store and its units per hour data by hovering over the bars in this visualization. Top and Bottom 10 Stores by Packing UPH: These column visualizations include the top and bottom stores, which have the highest and lowest number of units packed. The x-axis in these visualizations denotes stores, and the y-axis, the number of units. You can view the specific store and its units per hour data by hovering over the bars in this visualization. Store Picking / Packing UPH by Date: These line visualizations include the number of units picked and packed per hour by stores for the Computed On date range. The x-axis denotes the dates, and the y-axis, the number of units. These visualizations are especially helpful if you are responsible for a significant number of stores and you want to identify the outliers. You can select these outliers in the store filter and refresh the dashboard to focus on their performance data. User Productivity Tab This tab is helpful for a store manager managing one store or to perform further research based on your observations in the Store Productivity tab. It displays the productivity metrics and visualizations for specific store users/associates. Store Managers can view the performance information of store associates and compare the data by applying appropriate filters. Filters in User Productivity Tab The following table explains the different filters that you can apply on the dashboard and it returns the data that meets the filter condition: Fitler Description Store This filter returns the data of the store of your choosing. User ID This filter gives you the option to select one or multiple user IDs. User First Name This filter gives you the option to select one or multiple first names of the user(s). User Last Name This filter gives you the option to select one or multiple last names associated with the user(s) you have selected in the First Name filter. Computed On This filter gives you the option to select a date range for which you want to view the user data. Computed On Week This filter gives you the option to select one or multiple weeks from the list. Metrics in User Productivity Tab The following table summarizes the different metrics included in the User Productivity Tab: Metrics Name Query Subject/Query Subject Item Description User Picking UPH TMC_USER_PRODUCTIVITY/UPH Rate This metric displays the average number of units picked up by users each hour. User Packing UPH TMC_USER_PRODUCTIVITY/UPH Rate This metric displays the average number of units packed by users each hour. User Completed Units TMC_USER_PRODUCTIVITY/TOTAL_COMPLETED_UNITS This metric displays the number of units completed by users. User Active Duration TMC_USER_PRODUCTIVITY/TOTAL_ACTIVE_DURATION This metric displays the number of hours the users are active. User Rejection Rate TMC_USER_PRODUCTIVITY/Percent Rejected This metric displays the percentage of units rejected by users out of completed units. User Rejected Units TMC_USER_PRODUCTIVITY/TOTAL_REJECTED_UNITS This metric displays the number of units the users rejected. Visualizations in User Productivity Tab The Store Productivity Dashboard includes interactive visualizations that return data based on the selection of data points. The following sections summarize the different visualizations in the User Productivity tab: Average UPH Rates for All Users: This line visualization displays the average rate of units packed and picked per hour by multiple store users. The x-axis represents the Store Computed On dates you have selected in the filter, and the y-axis represents the number of units. This visualization helps you view the trend of picked activities against the packed ones. Top and Bottom 10 Users by Picking UPH: These column visualizations display the top and bottom users/associates with the highest and lowest units picked. The x-axis indicates store users, and the y-axis, the number of units. You can view the individual user and units per hour data by hovering over the bars in this visualization. Top and Bottom 10 Users by Packing UPH: These column visualizations include the top and bottom users, who have the highest and lowest number of units packed. The x-axis in these visualizations denotes users, and the y-axis, the number of units. You can view the individual stores and units per hour data by hovering over the bars in this visualization. User Picking / Packing UPH by Date: These line visualizations include the number of units picked and packed per hour by store users for the Computed On date range. The x-axis denotes the dates, and the y-axis, the number of units. These visualizations are especially helpful if you are responsible for a significant number of store associates and you want to identify the outliers. You can select these outliers in the store filter and refresh the dashboard to focus on their performance data.