# Store Goals Dashboard

**Permalink:** store_goals_dashboard
**Content Length:** 13,365 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:36:52.628986

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Supply Chain Intelligence&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Supply Chain Intelligence - Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Dashboards ››Store Goals Dashboard Store Goals Dashboard Store Goals DashboardOverviewFiltering DataMetric ResultsVisualizationsTop and Bottom 10 Performing StoresGoals By DateDrill through Reports Overview The dashboard for Store Goals offers a comprehensive range of analytics, allowing you to supervise and track Store Goals. Through this dashboard, you can evaluate the percentage of achieved goals across different stores. It also contains detailed drill through reports for store goal metrics such as top performing and bottom performing stores, as well as percentage goals by date. You can access the Store Goals Dashboard&nbsp;in IBM Cognos by navigating to&nbsp;Team Content &gt; SCI Packaged Content &gt; Packaged Dashboards &gt; OMNI &gt; Store Goals Dashboard.&nbsp;The&nbsp;following sections provide more information in detail. Note: Select any of the Top Performing, Bottom Performing or Goals by Date report, and you can access the drill through report by clicking&nbsp;the&nbsp;icon.&nbsp; Filtering Data The following table explains the different filters that you can apply on the dashboard, and it returns the data that meets the filter condition: Filter Name Description Date Select the date range. Store This filter shows only those stores which are associated with your login ID. If left blank, all stores will be considered. Goal Name Select the type of goal. There are the following goals. Optionally, select one or more goals. Completely&nbsp;Fulfilled&nbsp;Pickups On Time Pickup Completely Fulfilled Shipments On Time Shipments Metric Results The Metric Results section provides the results for the dimensions filtered as the user selects different values in either visualizations and/or the filter section. The Goal % is determined based on the selected goal type. The system computes the following: Completely Fulfilled&nbsp;Pickups Completely fulfilled pickups/(completely fulfilled pickups + partial shorted +completely shorted)*100 On time Pickup onTimePickup/(completely fulfilled pickups + partial shorted +completely shorted)*100 Completely Fulfilled Shipments CompletelyFulfilledShipments / (CompletelyFulfilledShipments + PartialShortedShipments + Completely shorted ) *100 On time Shipments OnTimeShipment / (CompletelyFulfilledShipments + PartialShortedShipments + Completely shorted ) *100 The following table provides a list of metrics available on this dashboard. Metrics Name Description Calculations Minimum Goal % The maximum percentage of goals achieved.&nbsp; This percentage is the maximum percentage got when calculated. For example, if there are 5 stores calculated for the selected goal type, then the least goal percentage of a store is considered the minimum&nbsp;goal. Avg Goal % The average goal for the type of goal selected. The average goal percentage is calculated for the stores. Maximum Goals% &nbsp; This percentage is the maximum percentage got when calculated. For example, if there are 5 stores calculated for the selected goal type, then the maximum goal percentage of a store is considered the maximum goal. Visualizations This dashboard displays the following&nbsp;visualizations that help analyze the store goal&nbsp;data for your stores. Top and Bottom 10 Performing Stores The bar chart identifies and displays the stores that have achieved the goal percentage. The top and bottom 10 performing stores are displayed in the graph. This performance indicator is based on the type of goals selected.&nbsp;The x-axis represents the store and the y-axis the Goal %.&nbsp; Store managers can use this visualization to compare their goal percentage achieved across stores for a particular goal type.&nbsp;&nbsp;You can view the individual store and goal percentage by hovering over the bars&nbsp;in this visualization. Goals By Date This line visualization identifies how stores perform over a date period&nbsp;with respect to the goal percentage.&nbsp;The x-axis denotes dates, and the y-axis represents goals in percentage. You can hover over the line points to view the specific data for a given date. Drill through Reports The drill through reports is displayed when you select&nbsp;any of the Top Performing, Bottom Performing or Goals by Date report, and click&nbsp;.&nbsp;This drill through report includes columns such as Order, Created Time Stamp, Picked By, Picked At, Pick Duration, Packed By and Pack Duration.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;