# iOS Re-sign Process

**Permalink:** store-resign-ios
**Path:** Administrator Tools/Store/Store - Resign Process/iOS Re-sign Process
**Content Length:** 26,699 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:11:50.033872

---

Home ››Administrator Tools››Store››Store - Resign Process ››iOS Re-sign Process iOS Resign Process Note: Preparation of certificate, App Id(Bundle Identifier) and Provisioning Profile creation are essential to using the Store app. If these are already in place, you can now configure the Firebase account for push notification for iOS or proceed with the Re-sign Process. Pre-Requisites Create an Apple developer account (https://developer.apple.com/) and ensure that Apple Enterprise Developer Program enrollment is fulfilled to perform the re-sign process. However, the developer account can also be used for testing purposes. Step 1: Prepare iOS Distribution Certificate If you already have an IOS distribution certificate and want to use the same Certificate for Store app, then proceed to Step 4: App ID Creation. Log in to your Apple Developer account and navigate to Certificates, IDs & Profiles > Certificates > Production. Add a new certificate. Set up a certificate of type Production and activate In-House and Ad Hoc. Click Continue. To proceed with the next step, we need a Certificate Signing Request (CSR). The Apple Developer interface can be left as-is at this moment and the process can be resumed later once we create a CSR. Step 2: Prepare Certificate Signing Request Download the Intermediate Certificates from developer.apple.com To use your certificates, we must have the intermediate signing certificate in your system keychain. This is automatically installed by Xcode. However, if you do not have Xcode, you need to install the intermediate signing certificate. Follow the steps below. Log in to your Apple Developer account and Go to Certificates, IDs & Profiles > Certificates > Click on "+" icon Go to the bottom of the page and download all the certificates from the links provided at the bottom of the page. *Note : Download the latest always before creating any new Certificate as Apple can change these. Double-click and install both the certificates On your Mac, open the Keychain Access program. In the menu bar, navigate to Keychain Access > Certificate Assistant > Request a Certificate From a Certificate Authority. The Certificate Assistant opens and creates a Certificate Signing Request (CSR) that is submitted to a certificate authority that verifies the information in the request. Enter your Apple ID and email address in the dialog. Click Continue. Select a folder for saving the CSR file to use later. Click Done. Step 3: Finalize iOS Distribution Certificate Now, resume to the Apple Developer account where we initiated the steps to create a certificate. Click on Continue. Select the CSR file you just generated. Click Continue. The certificate is created and signed. Download the newly created certificate. Click Done. The certificate's overview with your new certificate will be displayed. Step 3a: How to use the Certificate on a different Mac From the machine where we generated the certificate, go to keychain Access. Select the same Certificate listed under the Certificate Section in Keychain Access. Right Click and Click on ‘Export “iPhone Distribution …. ” Choose a Password to secure it while sharing it with others. It will generate a *.p12 file which anyone can install on their mac using the password used while exporting. Note: Provisioning profile will expire every year, while the certificate is valid for 3 years. It is therefore recommended to always create the .p12 file, as it will be necessary to resign the app in the future when the provisioning profile expires. You can keep the .p12 file in a secure location and share the password with a few authorized team members. Step 4: App ID Creation Log in to the Apple Developer account and navigate to Certificates, IDs & Profiles > Identifiers > App IDs. Add a new app ID. Fill in a name (this name will not be visible to the store users who use the app). Activate Explicit App ID. Fill in a Bundle ID. Best practice is to use your external domain name backwards + app name, for example com.yourcompany.app. In the section App Services, leave the default activated. Activate Push Notifications. Click Continue. An overview of the entered data will be displayed. Review and click Submit. Step 5: Create Provisioning Profile In your Apple Developer account, navigate to Certificates, IDs & Profiles > Identifiers > Provisioning Profiles. Add a new provisioning profile. Select/activate In House. Click Continue. From the dropdown menu, select the app ID you created in Step 4. Click Continue. Select the certificate you created. Click Continue. Fill in a name of your choice. (The name will not be visible to the store users who use the app.) Click Generate. Download the provisioning profile. Click Done. Re-Sign Process iOS Re-signing Tool Requirements Must have xcode or build-tools-essentials on Mac Ensure xcrun and actool is installed along with xcode and build-tools-essentials. Note: with the introduction of iOS and iPadOS version 15, Apple has mandated a more secure signature format. For Manhattan Active Store application to run on Apple devices on iOS/ iPadOS 15 version, the re-sign process needs to be performed on a MAC machine with atleast MacOS BigSur and XCode >= 12.5.1. iOS Re-signing Steps Download the resign script file here (also compatible with M1 MAC) and, for BigSur OS, download the resign script here Open the command terminal/prompt Use the following command to invoke it: ./ipa-resign  "input.ipa" "Certificate Name as per keychain" -p "path/to/profile" -d "new app display name (optional)" -f "firebase service plist file" -b "new bundle identifier name (optional)" -j "app_dynamic_application_key (optional)" -i "application_icon_folder_path (optional)" -v "APPLICATION_VERSION(optional)"  -u "URL_SCHEMA(optional)" [-m <media_folder_path>]  output.ipa Sample Re-sign Command ./ipa-resign "input.ipa" "iPhone Distribution: Manhattan Associates, Inc." -p "./Provisioning.mobileprovision" -d "Store" -b "com.manh.xxxxx" -j "XX-XXX-XX-XXX" -i "./APPICON/ios/Images.xcassets" -m "./APPMEDIA/" Stage/output.ipa" Additional Details on iOS Resign Parameters Application name (-d) Follow these best practices when providing a new app name: Use spaces to separate words to help with readability Make the app name short enough so that it displays on the OS home screen without ellipses Use title case It is recommended to retain "Store" in the name An example app name would be "Store Training" Application icon (-i) Download the sample Application Icon from here. Unzip the folder and keep it in the same location where the Respective Re-sign script file is. Replace the Application ICONs with your specific ICONs with the same name and sizes (ensure to keep the same size each of the Application Icons have) Provide the path of the folder pointing to the respective platform's(ios / android) Application Icon folder. Run the re-signing script after updating all the Application Icons with the option -i "APPLICATION_FOLDER". Application media sound (-m) Currently, the Store app supports playing custom sounds for Push notification. This parameter is used to package the sound files. Create a folder on the root location of the script where you are running the re-sign. For ex : created a folder called “APPMEDIA“ Put all .mp3 files inside the same folder (APPMEDIA) Run the re-signing script with option -m “./APPMEDIA/“ to copy any files in this folder to Native resource folder (applies to both iOS and Android) www - assets/media/services/hardware-accessors/resources/audio folder to be used inside the application. Application Version (-v) Use this parameter only in situations when the user will be installing a resigned version of the same build/app version that is already present on their device. For example, when a provisioning profile expires, a new signed binary must be installed on the device with the renewed provisioning profile. Customers may wish to retain the same app build/version without any code upgrades so that they don't have to go through a round of testing. However, a second instance of the same app/version cannot be installed on a device without deleting the old one, which means that any app configuration settings will be lost (default theme, URLs, etc.) in addition to having to delete the old app. In this situation, you can populate this parameter with a different app version number than what they already have, which will allow the app to be installed over the old one, retaining existing configuration settings. On the other hand, if you can take the new app build/version at the same time that the resigned app is delivered, leave this parameter blank. It will not be needed since the app version is already different. If the parameter is specified, it is recommended to use a patch version much higher than our base app version. (For example, if the base app version is 5.2.4, specify an override parameter of 5.2.54). For subsequent upgrades, use the app version 5.2.55 and higher. Helpful Tips To find installed certificates, use the following command: security find-identity -v -p codesigning Change file mod to executable if it says not permitted (chmod +x ipa-resign) Verify correct certificate and provisioning profile for iOS: Verify in Apple > Keychain Access that only 1 Certificate with the Certificate provided in the script is present Select the Provisioning profile and press the Space bar button in keyboard to see the details of the Provisioning profile Compare the Provisioning profile’s certificate creation date with the certificate installed in Key chain, The date should be almost the same (1 Day difference may be present due to timezone difference). The certificate will expire in 3 yrs from the creation date.