# Store Exceptions Management

**Permalink:** store-exceptions-management
**Content Length:** 11,932 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:36:34.430414

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Common ››Store Exceptions Management Store Exceptions Management Store Exceptions ManagementOverviewConfigurationCustom Exception TypesCustom Exception TypeCustom ResourceCustom Badge Count LogicCustom UI NavigationTroubleshootingUIs and Entities Overview With Store Exceptions Management, users are provided with a summarized view of exceptions that require action by an associate.&nbsp;This centralized visibility reduces&nbsp;resolution&nbsp;time and labor needed to identify the&nbsp;exceptions. A store exception&nbsp;indicator is displayed at the top of the Store application with a badge count of how many exceptions currently exist. Clicking on the indicator displays a list of store exceptions and their counts. The user can click on one of the store exception types to be directed to the appropriate screen in order to resolve the exceptions. The exception badge count is reduced as exceptions are&nbsp;resolved. The following exception types are supported. Each exception type is controlled by a&nbsp;configuration which defines whether it is&nbsp;used by the retailer and by a permissions which controls&nbsp;whether the associate should be able to view and resolve the exception. Inventory in error&nbsp;-&nbsp;This represents the number of item/supply type records that are marked in error due to shorting during fulfillment. The store user can navigate from the Store Exception UI to the View Inventory UI for the inventory in error items. From here, they can view&nbsp;the inventory levels, resolve the error or mark it as out of stock. Packages without shipping label&nbsp;-&nbsp;This represents the&nbsp;number of packages that are packed but do not have a tracking number. The store user can navigate&nbsp;from the Store Exception UI to&nbsp;the Completed Shipment UI where they can generate shipping labels for these packages. Negative inventory&nbsp;-&nbsp; This represents the number of item/supply type records with inventory that is less than zero. The store user can navigate&nbsp;from the Store Exception UI to the View Inventory UI for the negative inventory items. From here, they can&nbsp;view the inventory levels and mark the item as out of stock. Idle Tasks&nbsp;-&nbsp; This represents the number of pick and pack tasks that are&nbsp;in progress but&nbsp;have sat idle for longer than a configured amount time. The store user&nbsp;can navigate from the Store Exception UI to the Task Monitoring UI where the task can be reassigned to another associate. Refer to the Picking and Packing process guides for additional information on idle tasks. The count of store exceptions is refreshed&nbsp;upon: Logging into the Store application and selecting the store Navigating&nbsp;to the home screen after completing a transaction. Clicking&nbsp;on the Store Exception icon to open the Store Exceptions UI Resolving&nbsp;a store exception&nbsp;from the View Inventory UI or Completed Shipment UI Clicking on the hamburger menu. Note: Store exceptions are currently only supported for Store Inventory and Fulfillment (SIF)&nbsp;functions, not Point of Sale. The exceptions indicator is displayed on the Store Home page as well as SIF UIs. Configuration Configuration at the exception type level&nbsp;determines which exception type(s) are used by the business. These configurations are available in the Store Common Configuration UI in the Store Exceptions section: Inventory in error Packages without shipping label Negative inventory Idle Tasks For each exception type, an optional rank can be specified to control the sequence in which the exception types appear on the UI.&nbsp;If rank is not specified&nbsp;or if multiple exceptions have the same rank, the exception types are displayed in alphabetical sequence. In addition to business configuration, users must have permission to see each exception type. Refer to the Store Common&nbsp;UI Resources&nbsp;page for additional information. Custom Exception Types Retailers can define custom store exceptions and the base or custom screen to link to in order to resolve the exception. Note: Custom store exceptions are currently only supported for SIF functions, not Point of Sale. Custom Exception Type Add a new custom exception: Log in as System Admin. Select the &quot;Store Exception Type&quot; menu Add a new custom exception type, name, and description. Do not use the &ldquo;-&rdquo; character in the ID definition. Set the &quot;IsCustom&quot; property to true. This attribute distinguishes base from custom exception types and is automatically set to &quot;True&quot; when creating a new record. Custom Resource Add a custom resource for the new exception type: Select&nbsp;the &quot;Access Resource&quot; menu The Exception Type ID that was defined will be included in the custom resource definition which users must have in order to see the custom exception type on the UI. The format of the custom&nbsp;grant is:&nbsp;&ldquo;ui-store-exception::custom::&lt;menu&gt;::&lt;exceptiontypeId&gt;&rdquo;. For example, if the exception type ID was specified as &quot;customexception1&quot;,&nbsp;the custom resource format would be &quot;ui-store-exception::custom::&lt;menu&gt;::customexception1&quot;. The &quot;Exception Type ID&quot; must be specified in all&nbsp;lower case. Menu can be either a base or custom UI, depending on needs. Set the Component Route Name to &quot;storefacade&quot;. Custom Badge Count Logic To show a badge count&nbsp;for the custom exception, override the command router for badge count API. Below is the reference to the command router property.&nbsp; manh.command-router.commands.getStoreExceptionsBadgeCount.commandPath=/storecommon/storeExceptionsBadgeCount manh.command-router.commands.getStoreExceptionsBadgeCount.targetComponent=com-manh-cp-storefacade manh.command-router.commands.getStoreExceptionsBadgeCount.targetEndpoint=/api/storefacade/storecommon/storeExceptionsCount Call the base API in the custom code if the base store exception badge count is needed. Base API:{{url}}/storefacade/api/storefacade/storecommon/storeExceptionsCount Custom UI Navigation To provide the ability to link from the store exception type to a base or custom menu, use the common-inline-event-emitter inline UI user exit. Each custom exception will be indicated by the attribute &quot;isCustom=true&quot;. If the store exception ID has &quot;IsCustom&quot; as true, the&nbsp;UI treats the store exception as a custom exception. When clicking on the custom store exception, the custom code determines the screen (base or custom) to navigate to. UI Inline UE:&nbsp;common-inline-event-emitter Troubleshooting Issue Troubleshooting step The custom exception type is not displaying Login to the Store application and check the &quot;store common static data&quot;. UIs and Entities The configuration UIs mentioned in this document are&nbsp;listed in the following table,&nbsp;along with information to&nbsp;navigate&nbsp;to the API documentation: UI Name Component Group Seed Data Present? Seed Data Profile Store Common Configuration Store Facade Store Config Services Yes System Augmentable