# Submit /Approval Team Configurations

**Permalink:** submit-approval-team-configurations
**Content Length:** 5,337 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:25:26.413404

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process &amp; Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Allocation&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Allocation Review &amp; Approval ››Submit /Approval Team Configurations Submit/Approval Team&nbsp;Configurations &nbsp; Submit/Approval Team&nbsp;ConfigurationsCreating Team and Assigning UsersFiltersCreating a TeamEditing a Team&nbsp;ViewDeleting a Team Creating Team and Assigning Users The Teams UI enables you to create and manage teams and assign users to the team. &nbsp; Filters The following is the list of filters available on this screen: Is Active Organization ID Team ID Team Name Creating a Team To create a team, perform the following steps: &nbsp; Navigate to Menu &gt; Organization &gt;&nbsp;Manage Teams&nbsp; On the Teams page, click Create. On the Create New Team page, enter the team ID and name for the team. Select Is Active option as yes or no as required. Select the Organization ID from the drop-down and click Save and Continue. In the Add Users to the Team page, click Add to add a new user to the team. Select the Organization ID and User ID and click Submit. Click Save and Finish to save and complete the setup. Editing a Team You can edit the attributes of an existing teams&nbsp;using one of the below procedures: &nbsp; Swipe-out List Navigate to Menu &gt; Organization &gt;&nbsp;Manage Teams&nbsp; Swipe-out the menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Edit. In the Edit&nbsp;window, modify the required fields. Click&nbsp;Save & Close&nbsp;to save the modified team details. Edit View Select the team&nbsp;record card. The action buttons are displayed in the footer section. Click&nbsp;Edit&nbsp;to view the edit&nbsp;window. Modify the required fields. Click&nbsp;Save & Close&nbsp;to save the modified pullback team details. &nbsp;View Swipe Out List Swipe-out the menu on the required record card and select View. In Team&nbsp;Wizard, you can view the details of the team. &nbsp;View Select the required record card and you can view the action&nbsp;buttons displayed on the footer section. Click View&nbsp;from the action button to view&nbsp;details of the team. Deleting a Team Swipe-out List Navigate to&nbsp;Menu &gt; Organization &gt;&nbsp;Manage Teams&nbsp; Swipe-out menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts as &#39;Warning&#39;. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the team record. Delete Select the required record card. The footer section with action buttons is displayed. Select&nbsp;Delete.