# Supersession Items

**Permalink:** supersession-items
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Order Management/Process & Configuration Guides/Order Orchestration/Creating and Updating Order/Supersession Items
**Content Length:** 33,236 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:56:25.100779

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Order Management››Process & Configuration Guides››Order Orchestration››Creating and Updating Order ››Supersession Items Supersession Items OverviewFeature ScopeOrder Allocation and ReleaseOrder AllocationOrder ReleaseOrder Fulfillment Impact of Substitution on the Order and InventoryOrder Returns and ExchangesImpact of Substitution on Return LinesImpact of Substitution on Automated ReturnsImpact of Substitution on POS ReturnsImpact of Substitution on ExchangesOrder VisibilityImpact of substitution on outbound emailsImpact of substitution on customer service screensImpact of substitution on Digital Self-Service screensSupersession in StoresPrepare PickupsStage PickupsConfirm PickupsCurbside PickupsPickup SlipReprint Pickup SlipReturn to ShelfView InventorySame Day DeliveryReceive InventoryPause and ResumeSubstitution with SupersessionsNon-RFID Replenishment for SupersessionsHandling ReturnsConfigurationSubstitution RulesFulfillment OptimizationAvailable to Commerce View Overview Supersession gives the ability to retailers to fulfill an ordered item (parent item) using related items configured as supersession items for BOPIS orders. Retailers may place orders for the same item from different manufacturers or vendors, often operating in various countries. Although the delivered items are essentially the same, each may have a different item ID based on the supplier. These related items can be grouped as supersession SKUs — a set of interchangeable items that share the same selling information, including price, description, product images, and overall look and feel. For retailers with multiple versions of the same item, Manhattan Active Omni now considers all versions of the item during availability checks and allocation of pickup orders. During store fulfillment, store associates can fulfill the order using any of the related supersession items. When a supersession alternative is used to fulfill an order, the original item is shown on customer-facing documentation and store UIs. Note: The item ordered by the customer is referred to as “the ordered item.” If a substitution occurs in the fulfillment process, the item provided in place of the ordered item is referred to as “the supersession item.” The item actually delivered to the customer is referred to as “the fulfilled item.” The fulfilled item can either be the ordered item (if there is no substitution) or the supersession item (if a substitution was made). Feature Scope Only "Pick up in store" orders are eligible for substitution with supersession items. Invoicing will be done for the original item on the order line. Price and tax will not be re-evaluated when a supersession item is substituted as they will have the same selling info. Quantity detail updates will happen for the original item. Substitution details will not be created for supersession item substitution. Substitution with supersession is not supported. If the ordered item has supersession instances, the system will prevent the user from performing a substitution for the order. Returned supersession items of an order will be received in store as unexpeceted item(s) in the Receive Inventory flow. The same item information (item description, image, price, and so on.) is sent for all items in a supersession set. Only Item ID and UPC will differ. When multiple units of a supersession item A are picked on a picklist, the inventory levels of the individual items A1, A2 and A3 will remain correct if the associate scans each unit as they pick. However, if scan the same barcode multiple times or report the additional picks using the plus/increment button or direct quantity entry, the individual inventory levels of A1, A2 and A3 may become incorrect. However, the aggregated inventory level across item A will still be correct. The breakup of inventory consumed between parent and supersession items depend on how store associates pick fulfillments. If the store associates scan a parent item and then use '+' button , it will be registered as picking a parent item only, even if store associate picks a supersession item in reality with the '+' action. In the exception scenario when supersession item A1 is systematically picked to an order but the customer actually received supersession item A2 (due to batch picking, etc.), a return shipped back will appear as a variance in the Store and WM Returns UIs. However, Manhattan Active® Order Management reconciles the two related items and does not consider as a variance. The following do not support supersession: Ship to address Ship to store RFID Team-based picking Stores prevent late order cancellations for orders for which a supersession occurred. However, if an order was fulfilled for a item A1 and item A1 was also picked, we will accept the late order cancellation. Ship It Instead is not permitted with supersession. As a result, from a store standpoint, store-initiated ship it instead is not allowed in the Contact Customer UI for an order whose one or more lines has been superseded. Store Inventory Management and Point of Sale are not yet enhanced to support supersession. The section below describes how the inventory level will be displayed if a supersession item is shown in these options: SIM View Inventory Item details page In stock - Shows inventory level of superset In network - Shows individual item inventory level Break-up by supply type on Details page - Shows individual item inventory level List page: Available - Shows inventory levels of superset Perpetual - Shows individual item inventory level Find Inventory in Nearby Stores - Shows inventory levels of superset POS Item Details from Iris Cart In stock - Shows inventory level of superset In network - Shows individual item inventory level Find Inventory in Nearby Stores - Shows inventory levels of superset of items Order Allocation and Release Order Allocation When a customer order is placed for an item for which supersession items are configured, Manhattan Active® Omni evaluates both the original and supersession items during inventory promising. It prevents order failures due to item discontinuation and ensures customer satisfaction. For backordered items, Manhattan Active® Omni can automatically reallocate inventory from a superseding SKU when the original is no longer replenished. It reduces backorder duration and improves order fill rates. Manhattan Active® Omni can fulfill an order line by combining a complete supply of original SKU and mix of superseding SKUs when both are available in limited quantities, maximizing inventory utilization and minimizing split shipments or delays. For example: An order line is created for 8 units of ItemA. Available quantities: ItemA: 5 units ItemA1 (supersession item): 5 units Order line allocated: ItemA: 5 units ItemA1: 3 units Remaining available quantities after allocation: ItemA: 0 units ItemA1: 2 units Note: Supersession rules must be defined individually for each item in the supersession group for the system to consider all applicable supersession SKUs during allocation and fulfillment. If a supersession rule is not configured for an item, the system will treat it as a regular item for allocation and fulfillment. For example, if a supersession rule is configured only for ItemA, with ItemA1 and ItemA2 as its supersession SKUs, then when an order is placed for ItemA, the system will consider the inventory availability of ItemA, ItemA1, and ItemA2 for allocation. However, if an order is placed for ItemA1, the system will consider only the inventory availability of ItemA. Order Release Orders will be released based on the allocation process. During allocation, if the originally requested item is only partially available due to inventory constraints, the system will automatically consider inventory from its supersession SKUs (replacement items) to fulfill the remaining quantity. If both the original and superseding SKUs are available at the same fulfillment location, a single release will be generated with multiple lines, each corresponding to the respective SKUs. However, if inventory is spread across different locations, the system will create multiple releases based on SKU availability at each location. Example: If an order line is created for 10 units of ItemA, but only 5 units are available, and the remaining 5 units are available as ItemA1 (a superseding SKU for ItemA), the system will allocate inventory from both SKUs. If both are available at the same location, a single release will include two lines—5 units of ItemA and 5 units of ItemA1. If available at different locations, separate releases will be created accordingly. Order Fulfillment Impact of Substitution on the Order and Inventory When an order line includes a supersession item substitution, the information is persisted only on the order.FulfillmentDetail. If a customer orders 2 units of item A, before the substitution happens, the quantity detail of the order line will include 2 units of item A. However, if a substitution occurs during picking and 2 units of Item A1 are picked instead, the impact on the order and inventory is as follows: The order line quantity detail now shows 2 units of item A in status 3600 (Picked). Prices and taxes will not be recomputed, and the invoices will be created against Item A. The available quantity of Item A will be increased by 2 units and Item A1 will be decreased by 2 units. If, instead of picking 2 units of Item A1, only 1 unit was picked and 1 unit of Item A was shorted: 1 unit of Item A will be canceled independently of the configuration of the short reason code. This is due to the fact that reallocation of partially substituted lines is currently out of scope. The order line quantity detail now includes 1 unit of Item A in picked status. Invoices are now computed for 1 qty of Item A. The available quantity of Item A is increased by 1 unit and Item A1 will be decreased by 1 unit. Order Returns and Exchanges Impact of Substitution on Return Lines When an order is substituted with a supersession item, and a return is initiated from the call center or Digital Self-Service, the return order will be created for the original item. However, the superseding item (which the customer actually received) is expected to be returned. If a supersession SKU is verified against a return line referencing the original item, the system creates a return detail for the supersession item, but does not create an unexpected return line. The return invoice is generated for the original item. Example: If the return verification event includes a supersession SKU — ItemA1 — and the return order line references ItemA (where ItemA1 is a supersession of ItemA), the system creates a return detail for ItemA1 but generates the invoice referencing ItemA. Inventory supply is increased for ItemA1. Impact of Substitution on Automated Returns When an order is fulfilled with supersession SKUs,  customer actually receives the supersession item. If the customer initiates a return by affixing the return label and shipping the item, the return center receives the package and sends receipt information (items, quantities, and conditions) to the Order Management (OM) system. If the ReturnType flag in the receipt message is set to Refund, OM creates a return line for the received supersession item, and a refund is processed accordingly. If the ReturnType is Even Exchange, OM creates a same-item exchange for the received item. Automated returns do not support exchanges for a different size, color, or style. Example: If the return verification includes ItemA1, the system creates a return line and invoice for ItemA1. Inventory supply is increased for ItemA1. Impact of Substitution on POS Returns When an order is fulfilled with supersession SKUs, customer actually receives the supersession items. If they return the product at a physical store, the store associate scans the received item (supersession SKU). The ReturnMatch API returns IsMatch = true, as the scanned item is part of the supersession group. As a result, a return line is created for the supersession item, and the refund is issued for the same. Example: If the store associate scans ItemA1, the system creates a return line and invoice for ItemA1. Inventory supply is increased for ItemA1. Impact of Substitution on Exchanges For same-style exchanges, the return is created against the original item, and the replacement is fulfilled using any item from the supersession group. Order Visibility Impact of substitution on outbound emails Even after an item is substituted, the outbound emails will contain the original item information. Impact of substitution on customer service screens Even after an item is substituted, the customer service screens will display the original item information. Impact of substitution on Digital Self-Service screens Even after an item is substituted, the Digital Self-Service screens will display the original item information. Supersession in Stores During store fulfillment, store associates can fulfill an order using any of the available supersession SKUs. When a supersession SKU is used, the originally released item continues to appear on store-facing UIs and customer-facing documents, such as package slips and delivery receipts. The BOPIS flow supports supersessions with the following functionalities: Prepare Pickups The prepare pickup UI shows the items as per the allocated and eventually released order. The associate can scan/input an ordered item and/or the supersession item while preparing pickups for each release line. They will not see an "Item not on picklist" error while scanning a supersession item for an ordered item present on the release line. The associates can also choose to short/reject quantities on the release line or the item(s) itself by using the reject functionality on the prepare pickups. Stage Pickups The store associate can stage an order with supersession items in the same way they stage an order for a normal BOPIS flow.. The stage pickup UI shows the items that were a part of the release line and not the supersession items that were used to fulfill the order. Confirm Pickups The store associates can verify the customer and confirm the order having supersession items like it is done for the normal BOPIS flow.  The confirm pickup UI shows the items that were a part of the release line and not the supersession items that were used to fulfill the order. Associates can choose to cancel the order, an order line or a partial quantity of a line in the same manner as normal/non-supersession picks. If a partial quantity of a line is cancelled, the system determines which unit to cancel without user intervention or visibility. For example, if the fulfillment has 3 units of item “A” and the user picked A, A1 and A2 and 1unit is cancelled , A, A1 or A2 could be cancelled. Curbside Pickups Curbside Pickups are supported for orders fulfilled by supersession items. Pickup Slip Pickup slip shows the items and the quantities as per the release line present on the prepare pickups UI. If an item on the release line is fulfilled by the supersession item(s), the pickup slip will still show the items that are present on the release line and not the supersession items used to fulfill the order. Reprint Pickup Slip The associates can reprint pickup slip by searching for an item using either the ordered Item ID or the supersession Item ID used to fulfill the order and can pick the pick up slip for the order. Return to Shelf Return to Shelf UI shows the items as present on the release line when they were canceled. It will not show the supersession items on the Return To Shelf UI even if the release line(s) were fulfilled by the supersession items. View Inventory The view inventory shows the item specific quantity of the parent item, and its supersession items when each of them is scanned on the View Inventory UI. The combined quantities of parent and its supersesssion items are not shown on the View inventory UI. Same Day Delivery In the case of same day delivery orders, Order Management will only allocate the ordered item if sufficient inventory exists for that exact item. Other items in the supersession set are not eligible for allocation. However if the order is released to the store, store associates are  able to pick any item in the supersession set. Same Day delivery flow for supersessions is supported by SIF for both ordered qty>supply qty scenario and ordered qty<supply qty scenario. However, Inventory doesn't support allocation of ordered items to configured supersession items for ordered qty>supply qty scenario. Orders in this scenario get partially released to the store depending on the available inventory of ordered item, but supersession during store fulfillment is still supported for the partially released orders. Receive Inventory Returned supersession items of an order will be received in store as unexpected item(s) in the Receive Inventory flow. Say, for example, if an order of 10 quantities of item A was fulfilled by 6 quantities of item and 4 quantities of supersession item A1, and then 2 quantities of item A1 are returned on the Call Center UI. On the Receive Inventory UI, 2 quantities of A1 will be returned as an unexpected item. Pause and Resume Pause and resume are supported for supersessions for the same device and different devices. Substitution with Supersessions Substitution with supersession is not supported. If the ordered item has supersession instances, the system will prevent the user from performing a substitution. For example, if a customer orders item A and agrees to substitute with item B. However, supersession items A1 and B1 also exist for Item A. If Item A has a supersession item A1, the substitution action will be blocked in the user interface. If Item A is not a supersession item, and the user tries to scan B1, then we do not allow B1 to be scanned and throw an "item not on picklist" error. Non-RFID Replenishment for Supersessions For BOPIS orders fulfilled by supersession qtys, different non-RFID replenishment tasks will be created for ordered items and for the supersession items. After the replenishment tasks are created for ordered and for supersession items, the store associate can replenish the items on the Replenishment UI. Handling Returns Returned supersession items of an order will be received in store as unexpeceted item(s) in the Receive Inventory flow. Say, for example, if an order of 10 quantities of item A was fulfilled by 6 quantities of item and 4 quantities of supersession item A1, and then 2 quantities of item A1 are returned on the Call Center UI. On the Receive Inventory UI, 2 quantities of A1 will be returned as an unexpected item. Configuration Substitution Rules To fulfill a BOPIS order using supersession items, the user must first configure the supersession items to supersede the originally ordered items. Additionally, a substitution rule must be set up for the supersession process to function correctly. For example, ItemA1 can be defined as the supersession item for the originally ordered item ItemA. This setup can be completed through Omnifacade by following these steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Enterprise Fulfillment Configuration> Substitution Configuration. On the Substitution Configuration page, click add to add a new substitution rule. The Add Substitution Rule page is displayed. In the Details tab of the Add Substitution Rule page, poplulate the following fields: Rule Id: Define Rule Id for the substitution rule. For example: SupersessionItem1 Rule Name: Define the rule name for the substitution rule. For example, Supersession for ItemA Description: Define a description for the substitution rule. For example, Supersession for ItemA Substitution Type: Select "Supersession" from the drop-down. Rank: Enter Rank as '1'. Effective Date: Date/Time since the substitution rule is effective. Expiry Date: Date/Time till substitution rule is effective. Item Id: Enter the Item Id of the originally ordered item that can be superseded. For example, ItemA Rule Condition: This field needs to be left blank. In the 'Substitute Items' tab of the Add Substitution Rule page, click Add to open the Substitute Items popup and enter the supersession item details as follows: Item Id: Enter the Item Id that will supersede the originally ordered item. For example, ItemA Sequence: Enter a numerical value for the sequence of the supersession item. For example, if multiple supersession items are added, then sequence numbering can be 1,2...n. Click Save to save the added substitution rule. After the above setup, a supersession item (ItemA) can be scanned/fulfilled in place of the originally ordered item (ItemA) for a BOPIS order. Note: For Supersession Substitution, you can configure up to 10 items under the substitute items and the sequence of these supersession items does not matter. The limit of 10 substitute items also applies to the Substitution Type “OnBackorder. Fulfillment Optimization To enable supersession feature during order allocation and in both promising and cart flows, follow the below steps: Navigate to Menu > Application Configuration > Manage Enterprise Fulfillment Configuration> Fulfillment Optimization Select the desired Fulfillment Optimization Strategy > Click on three dots > Edit Enable 'Evaluate Supersession Rules' Available to Commerce View To enable supersession feature for location view, follow the below steps: Navigate to Menu > Available to Commerce > Select desired Location view Select Additional Configs > Enable 'Include Substitutions'