# Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning Release Notes 24.4

**Permalink:** supply-chain-planning-release-notes-24.4
**Path:** Home/Release Notes/Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning/2024/Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning Release Notes 24.4
**Content Length:** 70,900 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:53:12.227171

---

Home››Release Notes››Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning››2024 ››Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning Release Notes 24.4 Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning Release Notes I Next Manhattan Active® Supply Chain PlanningAllocationValidations for Item Location Phase Start and End DatesConfiguring Item Location Constraints using Location HierarchyConfiguring Item Location Phase using Location HierarchyReverting In-progress supplies to previous statusUsability Enhancements for Allocation Maintenance ScreenOther New DocumentationReplenishmentOrder ExceptionsOrder GroupOrder BuildOrder DueOrder ProjectionsPO ProjectionsCommitted QuantityConvenience PackOrder Pack OptimizationOrder Point AdjustmentBuying MultipleCalendar Build Pattern and ExceptionReview CycleReview Schedule PolicyReview Schedule ExceptionLead TimeLead Time OverrideBreak Point PricingUnit of MeasureItem LocationForecastingForecast ExceptionsFreeze ForecastDemand CleansingSeasonal ProfileSeasonal Profile PoliciesSeasonal Profile ExceptionsForecast Init & UpdateLost DemandPromo TrackingPromo Tracking Demand CleansingPromo Tracking in Forecast UpdatePromotional EventsManual AdjustmentsPlanned DemandPlanned Demand in SOQ ComputationManual Minimum and Manual Maximum OverrideCustom UI (Dashboard)Unified Business Planning ConsoleInventory ConsoleItem Location AnalysisStrategy/ConfigurationService Investment StrategiesOrder Frequency SimulationItem RelationshipSourcing RelationshipLifecycle ManagementOmni Inventory OptimizationDemand MetricsGrouping of Demand MetricsAttribute Inheritance Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning offers a unified, cloud-native platform that continuously optimizes inventory and resources across the entire supply chain. By integrating various functions, it provides comprehensive end-to-end visibility and management. Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning ensures that inventory levels are aligned with demand patterns, allowing for profitable customer satisfaction. The system can swiftly adapt to changes in demand, modify demand patterns by filtering out exceptions, and project future demand levels and frequencies. Some of the most significant features are summarized below. Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning Allocation Validations for Item Location Phase Start and End Dates Currently, both the Start Date and End Date for the Item-Location Phase are mandatory attributes. However, some customers find it inconvenient to maintain both dates for each of the item location phases. From this release, the Item Location Phase End Date will no longer be mandatory. If the End Date is not provided, the system will automatically switch to the next Item Location Phase when it detects the start date of the subsequent phase. The following are the new validation added for the phase start date. Start date is mandatory for all the phases configured by the users. Start date of current phase < End date of the current phase Start date is unique to each phase for an item-location Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Configuring Item Location Constraints using Location Hierarchy Currently, Item-Location Constraints can be defined at the combination of a store and aggregate level within the item hierarchy, such as Atlanta Store-Mens Department. Going forward, users will be able to configure Item Location Constraints at the aggregate level for both Item and Location hierarchy based on their business needs. For instance, you can configure minimum and maximum constraint values at combination of US East Region Stores-Men's Department. These constraints will be inherited by all children item-locations. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Configuring Item Location Phase using Location Hierarchy Currently,  Item-Location Phase can be defined at the combination of a store and aggregate level for item hierarchy, such as Atlanta Store-Mens Department. Going forward, users will be able to configure Item Location Phase at the aggregate level of both Item and Location hierarchy based on their business needs. For instance, you can configure Item-Location phase values for US East Region Stores-Mens Department. These constraints will be inherited by all children item-locations. Enablement: This feature is will be available as a part of quarterly release and not as a part of CD95. Reverting In-progress supplies to previous status Currently, when supplies are stuck in in-process status, the system generates an exception message. In such cases, the system will revert the supply to its previous status. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Usability Enhancements for Allocation Maintenance Screen The following usability enhancements have been implemented in the Allocation Maintenance screen as part of the 24.4 Release: Fixed Column Headers : The column headers in the Allocation Maintenance screen remain fixed while users scroll through the list of stores. New attribute on the sub-total bar : The RAQ (Raw Allocation Quantity) attribute has been added to the sub-total bar, alongside the existing Need and Allocated Quantity attributes. Confirmation on Allocation approval: A new confirmation dialog box has been introduced to allow users to confirm their action when approving a supply from the Allocation Maintenance screen. Capability to sort fields in Allocation Maintenance screen: A new capability is added to allow users to sort the fields in the Allocation maintenance screen. Enablement: This feature is automatically enabled as part of the release. Related: Allocation Maintenance Screen Other New Documentation Process Guides Inventory Segmentation Allocation Submission and Approval Replenishment Order Exceptions Order Exceptions identify order lines and order conditions that might require the buyers' attention. Buyers may need to review the order, with an exception, before approving the order. Two common types of order exceptions are: Header Exceptions: These exceptions apply to the entire order, impacting the overall processing or fulfillment of the order. Line Exceptions: Line exceptions, on the other hand, apply to specific lines or items within an order. The order exceptions can be set at the Sourcing Relationship level. Enablement: This feature is enabled by default. Related: Order Exceptions Order Group An order group is a structured way to manage and optimize orders by grouping relationships to adhere to constraints like brackets. By creating order groups, customers can view aggregate order totals, identify exceptions across all group members, override bracket policies, and recalculate, authorize, and approve orders for the entire group. Establishing order groups offers an organized approach to managing and optimizing orders, particularly when navigating complex relationships and constraints. Enablement: This feature is enabled by default. Related: Order Group Order Build The Order Build process involves multiple stages leading to the creation of a Purchase Order (PO). It begins once the suggested order quantity has been determined. The ordering system acts as the "mechanical" component of inventory management, serving as the engine that converts forecasts, actual orders, safety stock levels, and order quantities into finalized purchase orders. Enablement: This feature is enabled by default. Related: Order Build Order Due An Order Due is an order that must be placed or processed on the current day or a specified date, usually in response to certain conditions or triggers. It indicates when orders need to be executed and acts promptly based on current inventory requirements, scheduling, and specific policies to ensure optimal stock levels and prevent disruptions. Enablement: This feature is enabled by default. Related: Order Due Order Projections Order projections are a detailed, day-by-day simulation of the quantities you need to order for an Item, based on the relationship scheduled order cycle. Order projections give buyers a more accurate prediction of what demand will be for the future, to help them take informed decisions. Order Projection is something which determines the number of orders to place for the future. Enablement: This feature is enabled by default. Related: Order Projections PO Projections PO Projections predict the order quantities at the relationship level for an extended future period of 52 weeks. Used by Inventory Managers to understand the Order Quantity flowing in each week. Enablement: This feature is enabled by default. Related: PO Projections Committed Quantity A committed quantity (CQ) is the part of available inventory allocated for a special purpose and is not considered available for general sale. This is useful when the lead time is unusually long for a source and to remove some specialty orders from the on-order quantities, if you want to make sure that the available inventory balance is not changed by the purchase. The committed quantity indicates the amount of item that is unavailable. There are two ways of committed quantity. Static Committed Quantity : Static Committed Quantity is configured at the item location level, such as Back Order quantity, Reserve Quantity, HoldOut Quantity and HoldOut Days and is valid at all the time unless the user deletes. Time Phased Committed Quantity : When a committed quantity is time-phased, it can be specified with details like Committed Quantity Id, Description, Committed Quantity Type, days indicator, and begin and end dates.  The committed quantity is active for current business dates and for future dates that will be determined by the business date until it reaches those dates. Enablement: This feature is enabled by default. Related: Committed Quanity Convenience Pack A convenience pack refers to an order size tailored to meet your company's specific receiving requirements for a particular item. For instance, if your usual purchase involves buying an item by the case, but it proves more practical to receive it by the pallet, a convenience pack allows you to place orders in larger quantities rather than purchasing multiple smaller units. Certain items consistently maintain high volume or experience periodic spikes due to factors like seasonality or fluctuations in demand. Handling such items can become laborious and expensive if the buying multiples are small compared to their SOQs. Enablement: This feature is enabled by default. Related: Convenience Pack Order Pack Optimization Order pack optimization is used to calculate the optimal convenience pack policy for the Item. To enable the optimization process of selecting the best order pack size to round up the order quantity. Otherwise, this policy will be used only for rounding up the order quantity of convenience packs. Order pack optimization packs will have a lower handing cost per each. Enablement: This feature is controlled by grants and a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Order Pack Optimization Order Point Adjustment Order Point Adjustment (OPA) provides a way to add extra days to supply to the Item. It adjusts the Order Point by adding extra days of inventory equal to the number of days specified in Order Point Adjustment. This option is used to inflate the inventory being carried for some period of time. There are two ways of providing order point adjustment. Static Order Point Adjustment: It allows users to add extra days of inventory for the current day and can be configured at Item Location level. Time Phased Order Point Adjustment: Time phased OPA provides a way to specify the Order Point adjustment for a future date range (at Item Location Level) Enablement: This feature is enabled by default. Related: Order Point Adjustment Buying Multiple The buying multiple indicates the quantity of an item that can be bought in specific multiples. The Suggested Order Quantity will always be a multiple of this buying multiple.  If a Buying Multiple Roundup value is provided, the system will determine whether to round the Suggested Order Quantity (SOQ) up or down according to this value. Enablement: This feature is enabled by default. Related: Buying Multiple Calendar Build Pattern and Exception The calendar policy specifies the days of the week when various business activities occur, such as order reviews taking place Monday through Friday and not on weekends. It also allows for exceptions to standard business patterns, including events and holidays. Calendar policies are associated with each location through location configuration, and certain business activities are determined based on the specific location, such as source or destination locations. Enablement: This feature is enabled by default. Review Cycle The review cycle indicates the number of days from the current date until the next possible order date. It helps determine how much inventory should be ordered to cover the period between orders. Inventory Optimization may use this review cycle duration to calculate the Suggested Order Quantity (SOQ). Enablement: This feature is enabled by default. Related: Review Cycle Review Schedule Policy Review days for relationships are managed based on a series of business rules that make up the Review Date policy. By using these business rules, you control which days of the week you can place an order and how often you can place an order. Review date policy cannot be added to a flow-through relationship, because it uses the review date settings of the consolidated order it is associated with. If a date is not configured as an order review date in the Calendar, Replenishment does not use it as a potential order day, regardless of the settings on the Review Dates of the relationship. Users can configure certain dates as non-order review days on the calendar and remove the dates as order review days, regardless of any settings in the Review Date policy. Any rules in the Review Date policy are in addition to any non-order review events on the calendar. When calculating if a date is a valid order review day, Replenishment for Open Systems uses both the non-order review dates and the business rules set in the Review Date policy. If the date meets all the criteria, it is considered a valid order review day. Enablement: This feature is enabled by default. Review Schedule Exception The Review Schedule exception is used to specify exceptions to review the schedule of a relationship or order group. If an override review date exists on the Relationship which falls in the time period of an exception week, the override review date takes precedence over the review date exception configuration and orders will be placed on the override review date. Calendar Build Patterns and Exceptions will work in parallel with the review date exceptions. If the current business day to be considered as a review day, then the week day should be considered the review day as per the destination business entity calendar policy and the review date exception. Enablement: This feature is enabled by default. Lead Time Lead Time is the amount of time (in days) it takes to physically receive, stock and make the inventory ready for use from the time when the order is placed. It can have multiple components to it, such as transit time, pre-processing time, etc. It is configured at the relationship level. This helps ensure you have the right stock levels at the right times and can manage the supply chain more effectively. Enablement: This feature is enabled by default. Related: Lead Time Lead Time Override The Lead Time Override feature enables users to create lead time overrides for a particular period of time. Users can add multiple lead time overrides for the same policy with different non-overlapping dates. Users can define override for lead time and quoted lead time for a particular period of time using a lead time override policy. They can use the lead time override to override the existing lead time or define the lead time as an offset for a particular period of time. Negative values for lead time can be defined only when the lead time is used as an offset for a specific day. Enablement: This feature is enabled by default. Related: Lead Time Break Point Pricing Breakpoint pricing is used to determine whether there is a financial advantage to increasing today’s order (SOQ) to a higher level to take advantage of a volume-based price discount. Enablement: This feature is enabled by default. Unit of Measure A unit of measure (UOM) is a metric in which the maximum value is expressed. Pre-defined units of measure exist within each system of measure (SOM). Replenishment provides a number of systems of measure (SOM). SOMs are based on US and International Systems (SI) of units standards. SOMs include: Packaging - Can be used when building orders to physical constraints. You can configure the ratio to base for almost all units of measure. Examples: each, case, layer, pallet, dozens, bottles. Weight - Mass measurements. The units of measure are pre-defined based on current SI standards. Examples: pound, ton, gram, pound per cubic foot. Volume - Volume measurements. The units of measure are pre-defined based on current SI standards. Examples: gallon, fluid ounce, liter, cubic inch, cubic meter. Currency - You can maintain the units for the Currency SOM through the interface and the user interface. Examples: US dollar, Euro, Japanese Yen, British Pound. Enablement: This feature is enabled by default. Item Location This component maintains the information about items stocked at a physical location (such as DC or store) or a virtual location (demand channel or segment). This component includes several entities that represent various meaningful information like location details, items sold per location, relationships maintained between source and target locations etc. Enablement: This feature is enabled by default. Forecasting Forecast Exceptions The main goal of managing forecast exceptions is to improve forecast accuracy. For many retailers and wholesalers, handling various types of exceptions is both time-consuming and costly but essential for maintaining optimal inventory levels. Inefficient management of demand exceptions can lead to decreased accuracy at the store level, forcing merchants to either compromise service and revenue or hold excess stock to offset inaccurate forecasts at the point of sale. Advanced Exception Management (AEM) addresses these challenges through three key strategies: First, it filters demand exceptions using enhanced statistical methods and flexible business rules, ensuring that only significant exceptions that need corrective action are highlighted. Second, it employs advanced algorithms to automatically identify and resolve the root causes of exceptions. Third, it offers improved user interface features to help users swiftly navigate through exceptions, determine appropriate corrective actions, and execute them effectively. Enablement: This feature is enabled by default. Related: Forecast Exceptions Freeze Forecast Freezing the forecast for a forecast entity until a specified end date. This prevents Demand Forecasting from changing the forecast until the first period forecasting process after the end date. Consider the following before you freeze a forecast: Demand Forecasting continues to calculate a forecast for the forecast entity during the period forecasting process, but it does not update the forecast unless specified or until the first period forecasting process after the freeze expires. You can specify that, during the freeze period, Demand Forecasting changes the forecast: Never Only if it increases Only if it decreases The forecast is frozen until the next period forecasting process after the end date passes or until you manually clear the end date. Enablement: This feature is enabled by default. Demand Cleansing Demand Cleansing is the process of cleansing the demand history to smoothen differences like outliers & spikes and classify the Item-Location into various predefined categories. It “Cleans” demand prior to being used to generate seasonal profiles and forecasts, smoothing spikes and outliers due to promotional events or errors, which may not truly represent expected demand. Also, it classifies entities into user configurable categories (regular, intermittent, slow mover, etc.) as per the thresholds configured on the Demand Cleansing Policy. These classifications can further be used in forecasting processes to perform certain actions or to take some decisions. Demand Cleansing is an optional process and can be omitted if not required. Enablement: This feature is enabled by default. Related: Demand Cleansing Seasonal Profile A Seasonal Profile describes the seasonal demand pattern of an Item Location by applying seasonal indices which adjust the base, de-seasonalized forecast in response to demand variations during certain seasons or forecast periods.  These seasonal indices define the increase or decrease to be applied to the de-seasonalize forecast during the corresponding period, with a value of 1 indicating no adjustment to the forecast.  If the total of the seasonal indices does not equal 52, Replenishment will normalize the values when the buyer saves the seasonal profile. Seasonal Profile Policies The seasonal profile policies are crucial for effectively analyzing seasonal data patterns by defining how historical data is weighted in creating seasonal profiles. Seasonal Profile Exceptions The seasonal profile exceptions enhance transparency and control over the seasonal profile generation process, enabling users to manage exceptions effectively and ensure that seasonal profiles are accurately maintained for all Item-locations. Enablement: This feature is enabled by default. Related Seasonal Profile Forecast Init & Update An Initialized Forecast is one where all demand history periods are optionally used to calculate a new forecast. The amount of demand history to use for forecast initialization is configurable. Users can select a specific number of periods back from the current period, a date range, or use all demand history. It is a weighted calculation; more weight is given to recent history periods, and less weight is given to older historical periods. Forecast initialization uses Dynamic Smoothing technique for the forecast. The Forecast Update depends on the period forecasting procedure unless you decide to Initialize on Unfreeze. If the user chooses to Initialize on Unfreeze, the forecast update follows the forecast initialization (weighted average) instead of the usual period forecast update. Enablement: This feature is enabled by default. Lost Demand The lost demand refers to the quantity of demand that cannot be fulfilled due to stockouts (i.e., when inventory levels drop below a specified threshold or out-of-stock point). Release 24.4 has the ability to inteface lost sales. Interfaced (Int) – Interfaced into Demand Forecasting from a host system. Lost demand helps to account for lost sales during the time when inventory is out of stock and ensures that the forecast does not decrease. Enablement: This feature is enabled by default. Promo Tracking Promotion is tracked by the backend process during demand cleansing and forecast update. Promo tracking identifies promo demand, which is any sales over the average demand. Promo tracking happens during demand cleansing and forecast update. The promotional demand is stored as records in the existing demand metric entity with a separate metric type called promo demand. Enablement: This feature is enabled by default. Promo Tracking Demand Cleansing Demand Cleansing Policy entity has a flag called Smooth Business Event (business Event Smoothing).  When this flag is set to be true, then the Demand Cleansing process identifies the promo periods and calculates the corresponding promo amount (anything above the forecast average) in each period. The system then moves this promo demand to the Promo bucket during batch demand cleansing, which can be triggered by the Demand Cleansing Policy UI. Enablement: This feature is controlled by grants and a configuration that is disabled by default. Promo Tracking in Forecast Update When the Forecast Update runs, it tracks promotion and moves promo demand to the promo bucket based on the following inputs (no additional flag is required to trigger promo tracking in forecast update): Forecast History (previous period) Promotion that was tracked in the previous period Business Events that were active in the previous period (to be implemented after introducing Business Events that are not promotion). The system needs a promo event entity and/or a business event entity to know when an item location is on promo or when a business event is occurring. Enablement: This feature is enabled by default. Promotional Events The Promotional events module addresses the initial phase of Business Event management, focusing primarily on promotional events within Demand Cleansing and Forecast Update. Most clients define promotions independently of SCP, with most promotional events being interfaced by external systems. The UI will primarily display these records and facilitate the creation of a few additional promotional events. Entities related to promotional events will be located within the forecast component. Enablement: This feature is enabled by default. Manual Adjustments Planned Demand Planned demand enables users to generate a demand projection when historical data is unavailable. It can also be used to make temporary adjustments to forecasts. In this release, users will only be permitted to enter planned demand quantities at the leaf (item-location) level. For planned demand, the system will only send projections for future dates. Enablement: This feature is enabled by default. Related: Planned Demand Planned Demand in SOQ Computation It calculates the total additional demand by multiplying the regular daily forecast by the Additional Demand Percent during the planned demand period. In addition, if the additional demand quantity is greater than zero, then the additional demand quantity is added to the forecasted demand to get the total demand. When you use the Additional Demand Quantity, Replenishment spreads the total demand evenly across the planned period. When you use the Additional Demand Percent, Replenishment calculates the daily additional demand as a multiple of the daily forecast which considers the possible seasonal and day-of-week profiles. The quantity of planned demand will be evenly spread out each day during the start-end duration of the IO system. Enablement: This feature is enabled by default. Manual Minimum and Manual Maximum Override A manual minimum sets a lower limit for the suggested order quantity (SOQ). Manual minimum is used to maintain a specific quantity of inventory (in units or days of supply) for an item. This will ensure that inventory levels don't fall below a certain threshold.  Manual minimum should be used only when necessary, as excessive manual minimum quantities could lead to excess inventory that isn't needed to achieve your service goals. A manual maximum sets an upper limit for the Suggested Order Quantity (SOQ), ensuring that the SOQ never exceeds this maximum limit. This is particularly useful to control inventory levels and prevent overstocking. Use manual maximums when required, since low manual maximum quantities or days of supply may result in more frequent ordering. If you use a manual minimum and manual maximum, the manual maximum quantity must be greater than or equal to the manual minimum quantity. Enablement: This feature is controlled by grants and a configuration that is disabled by default. Related: Manual Minimum Manula Maximum Custom UI (Dashboard) Unified Business Planning Console Companies often face challenges in aligning their supply chain plans with warehouse execution and distribution center capabilities within a short-term planning horizon. This disconnect can arise in both warehouse operations and transportation. The Unified Business Planning Console tackles this issue by comprehensively understanding the warehouse's capabilities. For example, if a promotion plan overlooks warehouse constraints, such as limited storage capacity, dock doors, or labor, the plan may become unmanageable. In such cases, adjustments can be made to redistribute the workload over previous days. This release of the Unified Business Planning Console bridges the gap between supply chain planning and execution systems. By integrating insights from both perspectives, the console facilitates the creation of more realistic and executable plans. Enablement: This feature is enabled by default. Related: Unified Business Planning Console Inventory Console Developing a unified console for Inventory Analysts, Allocators, and Demand Planners can significantly boost their efficiency by offering a centralized view of their tasks, forecast exceptions, and inventory performance. This all in one solution allows users to monitor their inventory performance and pinpoint tasks that require attention, thereby enhancing their overall productivity. Users can begin their work and return to the console later, with the display dynamically updating to reflect changes, such as a decreasing count of orders to review as they approve them. The console provides a holistic overview of various types of tasks on a single screen, such as exceptions, orders, and simulation results requiring review, eliminating the need to navigate through multiple screens and apply different filters. Enablement: This feature is enabled by default. Related: Inventory Console Item Location Analysis Given the multitude of factors and historical data points that affect current and future order quantities and KPIs, users need a centralized platform for comprehensive analysis. Inventory Analysts, Allocators, and managers use this dashboard to review and finalize order quantities for each item location, troubleshoot and analyze KPIs to understand deviations such as understocking, overstocking, service levels, inventory turns, and forecast accuracy, and maintain data. They must assess the accuracy of both current and projected order quantities while identifying the reasons for any KPI deviations. The Item Location Analysis List page offers a detailed view of items (item-loc-src) and the various factors influencing the Suggested Order Quantity. Users can search and filter to pinpoint specific items for analysis and batch reconfiguration, employing filters based on transactional data and configurations like SOQ, Forecast, Inventory, and Demand, with values available at both the leaf and inherited levels. Forecast history is often used for troubleshooting forecasting related issues. The forecast history has persisted on the forecast entity during forecast initialization and forecast update. The number of periods persisted will be configurable. The initial default can be 13 periods. The Item Locations Detail UI can retrieve the required forecast history information. Enablement: This feature is enabled by default. Strategy/Configuration Service Investment Strategies If a company had unlimited funds and storage capacity, it could maintain a 100% stock level at every item location at all times. However, providing higher service levels to customers requires greater safety stock investments. Since safety stock can be a significant part of overall inventory investments, it is important to optimize safety stock investments. In the real world, a company sets a service investment strategy that meets the applicable customer service level. The service investment strategies calculate the correct amount of safety stock for each item location, based on the desired service investment strategy and the safety stock components. Some item locations need more safety stock, while others need less or do not need any safety stock. The correct amount of safety stock is the amount that meets the item location’s service goal. Enablement: This feature is enabled by default. Order Frequency Simulation An order frequency simulation evaluates the costs associated with various order cycles to identify the one with the lowest net annual cost for a relationship or order group. It is typically recommended to run this simulation in several scenarios, such as once per quarter, when adding or removing multiple item locations from a relationship, when there are changes in item location prices, carrying costs, or handling costs, when there are significant fluctuations in demand, when brackets are changed, or when the safety stock strategy is modified. The simulation analyzes handling costs (line costs) and carrying costs (including both cycle stock and safety stock) to determine the most cost-effective order cycle in days. It also offers a preview of the suggested buying recommendations for the relationship. Enablement: This feature is enabled by default. Related: Order Frequency Simulation Item Relationship In the typical lifecycle of an Item Location, it is introduced and sold for a certain period before it may be permanently replaced by another Item Location. During promotional periods, a customer might temporarily use one Item Location to replace others. Additionally, some Item Locations may be sold as part of a collection, with each item being replenished individually. To manage these situations, customers can use Replenishment item relationships. These relationships allow customers to replace one Item Location with another, either temporarily or permanently, manage demand from a single Item Location to multiple Item Locations, and handle demand from multiple Item Locations to one Item Location. When Item Locations are correctly linked, the Replenishment system automatically accumulates and records demand for the relevant Item Locations, calculates accurate forecasts, and determines the right Suggested Order Quantities (SOQs) at the appropriate times. In Release, the system supports only one type of relationship: Supersession, which involves permanently replacing one item location with another and is the most common type of item relationship. Enablement: This feature is enabled by default. Related: Item Relationship Sourcing Relationship A Sourcing Relationship sets the connection between two locations. The relationship contains information and policies that tell Replenishment how to react when it processes orders for the entities. Orders are placed for sourcing relationships. For example, a sourcing relationship can be between: A manufacturer and a warehouse A warehouse and a distribution center A distribution center and a retail store Enablement: This feature is enabled by default. Lifecycle Management This is a policy designed to automatically adjust the replenishment behavior of an Item Location (Stock Keeping Unit) based on its life cycle stage and a predefined future date. Life cycle policies help manage inventory more effectively by tailoring actions like forecasting, ordering, data presentation, and lost demand estimation to the specific stage of the product's life cycle. Implementing a dynamic life cycle management policy can significantly enhance inventory efficiency and align stock levels with demand throughout the product life cycle. Valid Selections: Active Discontinued Inactive The user can create his own codes and apply them to items or Item locations. When the user configures the Life Cycle policy, they can set processing options that determine whether or not Replenishment performs certain functions. Enablement: This feature is enabled by default. Omni Inventory Optimization Demand Metrics Demand Metrics will be the component that is responsible for retaining a log of the daily, weekly and/or monthly history of different demand types. This information is needed for demand planning, forecasting and replenishment processes. Basically, the Demand Metrics component has been leveraged to keep the historical data. We store any metric logs by a given date. Enablement: This feature is enabled by default. Grouping of Demand Metrics Group of Demand Metrics is used to combine multiple demand events into one demand metric based on user configuration. User can define up to 4 attributes in the demand metric as grouping keys. One grouping key will be reserved for storing attributes related to system generated metrics. e.g. Metric Group ID for cleansed sales. The user defined group of metrics with filters using grouping keys. Enablement: This feature is enabled by default. Attribute Inheritance Attribute inheritance in hierarchical data structures means that attributes defined at a higher level in the hierarchy are available to lower levels, unless overridden. To handle this effectively, you need to account for both direct attribute values and inherited values from parent entities. To get the value of an attribute defined at any level of entity hierarchy, consider Item hierarchy path. Each attribute will be part of the Item and Item Inheritance Policy and each child entity will be a child of an Item and Item Inheritance Policy entity. For example: Attribute Line Cost will be defined at Item Location Source, Item Location, Location, and Location Inheritance Policy. Similarly, entity Handling Cost will be defined by child in Item Location, Location and LocationInheritancePolicy. So, we need to get the value of Line Cost or Handling Cost based on the pre-defined hierarchy path. Enablement: This feature is enabled by default. Related: Attribute Inheritance