# Supply Chain Intelligence Release Notes 22.2

**Permalink:** supply-chain-intelligence-release-notes-22.2
**Content Length:** 8,146 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:47:26.659316

---

Home&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Release Notes&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;2022 ››Supply Chain Intelligence Release Notes 22.2 Supply Chain Intelligence&nbsp;Release Notes&nbsp;22.2 Report ChangesOther Enhancements Store Productivity Dashboard &nbsp; Operational SCI for 22.2&nbsp;Manhattan Active&reg; Omni introduces the Store Productivity Dashboard. This dashboard provides visibility into the store order fulfillment performance, focusing on the picking and packing activities across multiple stores and associates.&nbsp;This dashboard contains Store and User productivity tabs that provide information on the total number of units picked and packed, units rejected, duration, top/bottom performers, and more. Store executives/managers can use this dashboard to evaluate performance and take corrective actions or provide necessary training opportunities to improve the overall efficiency of store fulfillment activities. For more information, refer to this page. Report Changes Operational SCI for 22.2&nbsp;includes enhancements to the existing Order Fulfillment and Point of Sales reports. The following table summarizes these updates: Report Name Category New/Existing Report Description SLA Curbside Summary Report /&nbsp; SLA Curbside Metrics By Day Report Store Order Fulfillment Existing Added two columns to both reports to ascertain the number and percentage of orders that use the &#39;On the Way&#39; feature in the SLA Curbside reports. Transaction Summary Report Point Of Sales Existing Added two columns to this report that include the number and percentage of orders with customer IDs. Framework Changes &nbsp; Operational SCI v22.2 includes the following changes made to existing framework packages: Package Name New/Existing Package Description Inventory Management Existing Added the Inventory Capacity Override, Inventory&nbsp;Capacity Definition, Inventory View Configuration, Inventory View Rule Set, and&nbsp;Inventory View Rule Set Filter entities to the Inventory Supply table Order Fulfillment Existing Added Fulfillment Customer Location table to the Fulfillment package Order Management Existing Added: Order Fulfillment Detail For Order Release, Order Release Order For Tracking Info, and Order Release Order Tracking Detail entities to the Release table Order Line Order Tracking Info and Order Line Order Tracking Detail entities to the Order Line Fulfillment Detail table Order Tracking Detail entity to the Order table Payment Transaction Attribute entity to the Payment Transaction table Other Enhancements The following table summarizes other updates for Manhattan Active Supply Chain Intelligence: Enhancement Description Time Zone Conversion for Point of Sales reports When running Point of Sales reports, users can now view the user timezone instead of the default server timezone.&nbsp; Addition of Columns in Business Layer Operational SCI for Active&reg;&nbsp;Omni includes all the columns available in the business layer. This enhancement offers you more options to create custom reports based on your requirements. Modification of Framework documentation based on the Relationship Layer The Framework diagrams for all Active&reg; Omni packages are modified based on its Relationship Layer. The modified diagrams provide more information on the interconnectivity between the query subjects within a framework package. To view these modified diagrams, refer to the Framework section. &nbsp; &nbsp;