# Supply Chain Intelligence Release Notes 22.3

**Permalink:** supplychainintelligencerelease-22.3-2
**Content Length:** 5,643 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:47:52.075594

---

Home&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Release Notes&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;2022 ››Supply Chain Intelligence Release Notes 22.3 Supply Chain Intelligence Release Notes 22.3 &nbsp; &nbsp; Adoption of Cognos Analytics v11.1.7&nbsp;Report Updates Adoption of Cognos Analytics v11.1.7&nbsp; &nbsp; Operational SCI for Manhattan Active&reg; is certified with the IBM Cognos Analytics 11.1.7 Interim Fix 9 (IF 9)&nbsp;version. This version includes the following new features: &nbsp; Feature Description IBM Carbon X theme The IBM Carbon X theme derives from the color standards of IBM&rsquo;s Carbon Design System and includes bright blue elements and a black banner. Cognos administrators now have the option to switch between themes and apply them by navigating to&nbsp;Manage&nbsp;&gt;&gt;&nbsp;Customization&nbsp;&gt;&gt;&nbsp;Themes. Scheduling User Interface IBM Carbon X design standards also introduce&nbsp;a new and user-friendly interface for scheduling reports, choosing report delivery options, and setting up jobs. The new interface&nbsp;allows you to: Dynamically change the output based on the options you select Review the summary pane, which describes all your selections in real-time Save a report view from the Run as dialog Edit a schedule that you do not own without changing its credentials Enhanced Data Sets With the improved IBM Cognos Data Sets, you can: View the queries and perform query operations with specific properties Modify queries, add filters, and use parameters Review the generated XML output of a data set and copy it from/to your clipboard Reuse the report output and its queries into a data set &nbsp;In addition to&nbsp;these enhancements, the elapsed time to create data sets is faster, and less CPU and memory capacity is used to generate them. &nbsp; Report Updates &nbsp; This section highlights the changes made to the existing Active Allocation reports. &nbsp; Report Name Change Description Supply Report As part of this release, the Supply report includes additional columns, such as Style ID, Product ID, Pack ID, Number of Packs, Quantity, and Total Qty. This enhancement fetches more data or results to ascertain the availability of multiple supplies in distribution centers/stores.&nbsp; Current Allocation Report Earlier, this report displayed allocations of all products/ locations irrespective of the status - Allocated, Unallocated, Rejected, and more. It must only show the current allocated inventory. Modifications are made to the internal filter to ensure that the report only displays the current allocated inventory for product/location. All Reports The look and feel of all Allocation reports are modified to adhere to the standard guidelines designed for base SCI Active reports.&nbsp; &nbsp;