# Supply Chain Intelligence 21.3 Release Notes 

**Permalink:** supply-chain-intelligence-21.3-release-notes
**Content Length:** 5,839 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:47:29.629079

---

Home&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Release Notes&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;2021 ››Supply Chain Intelligence 21.3 Release Notes Supply Chain Intelligence&nbsp;21.3&nbsp;Release Notes Last updated: &nbsp;07/02/2021 Dashboard ChangesReport ChangesFramework ChangesBrowser SupportabilityOther Updates This section highlights new features or functionalities introduced in the SCI 21.3&nbsp;release. For more information, you can refer to the links that are provided in each section. Dashboard Changes There are no new dashboards introduced in the SCI 21.3 release and no enhancements made to the existing ones. Report Changes There are no new reports introduced in the SCI 21.3 release and no enhancements made to the existing ones. Framework Changes The following table summarizes the enhancements made to the Framework section: Framework Name New/Existing Package Description Order Management Framework Existing Added Inventory Capacity Override to the Inventory Location Objects table Order Fulfilment Framework Existing Added Parcel Package Type table Point of Sale&nbsp;Framework Existing Added Order Hold, Parent Order, Order Line Hold, and Child Order Line tables&nbsp; Added Sam Request Logs and Sam Request Logs For Parent Order tables to the Order Objects table Multiple Framework Packages Existing Added Organization Grants&nbsp;table to Order Management, Order Fulfllment, Customer Engagement, Point of Sale, Store Inventory Management, and Store Inventory Management - Cycle Counting packages &nbsp; &nbsp; Browser Supportability SCI supports the following versions of the browsers: Browser Supported Versions Additional Information Google Chrome Latest version and future fix packs as certified and supported by IBM Event Studio is not supported Firefox ESR v60&nbsp;and future fix packs as certified and supported by IBM Event Studio is supported only on Firefox &nbsp; Other Updates The following points outline&nbsp;the conditions and notification sent to the user while they run an interactive report: SCI&nbsp;limits an interactive report to run no more than 20 minutes. If an interactive report takes longer than 20 minutes to return (after the user has initiated or run the report), then the report is canceled and the user is notified with an error message. SCI limits a scheduled report or an alert to run no more than two hours. If a scheduled report or alert takes longer than two hours to return (after it was initiated or run), then the report or alert is canceled and the pertinent report or alert information is logged. The SCI Admin UI can&nbsp;see the reports or alerts that are canceled.