# Switzerland

**Permalink:** switzerland
**Content Length:** 5,383 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:35:56.396863

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Point of Sale&rsaquo;&rsaquo;POS Classic Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;POS Classic Fiscalization and Globalization ››Switzerland Switzerland OverviewTax ConfigurationReceipt ConfigurationServices Overview Switzerland is a non-fiscal country and there are no specific laws or other regulations specifically dedicated to fiscalization.&nbsp;Although there are no specific fiscalization requirements, there are certain rules and recommendations on VAT invoices/receipts and on keeping accounting records. Language:&nbsp;The four national languages of Switzerland are German, French, Italian and Romansh.&nbsp;German, French and Italian maintain equal status as official languages at the national level within the Federal Administration of the Swiss Confederation, while Romansh is used in dealings with people who speak it. As per the invoices/receipts themselves, there is also no language requirement for validity, but by default, invoices should be in one of the Swiss national languages (French, Italian or, in most cases,&nbsp;German). The locale can be configured as detailed in the localization configuration guide.&nbsp; Currency:&nbsp;The official currency of Switzerland is the Swiss franc. The symbol for the Swiss franc is &quot;CHF&quot;. The official currency code (ISO currency standard) is &quot;CHF&quot; as well. Alternatively, the abbreviation &quot;Fr.&quot; or &quot;SFr.&quot; is also widely used as a symbol. The currency denomination can be configured as detailed in the localization configuration guide. Tax Configuration Switzerland&#39;s taxation is&nbsp;value added tax (VAT) and it represents a consumption tax that is applicable to domestic goods or services and which falls under the supervision of the Swiss Federal Tax Administration. Switzerland is not part of the EU; therefore, it sets its own VAT rates. As a consequence, Switzerland has the lowest VAT rate in Europe.&nbsp; VAT&nbsp;Rates: VAT rates are categorized into buckets below. Standard 7,7% Special rate 3,7 % (tourism and hotel accommodation) Reduced rate: 2,5 % (medicines, newspapers, food stuff, books etc.) * The above VAT rates are as of Dec-2022, which might be subjected to change as per local laws. VAT Tax Configuration:&nbsp;The information about configuring the country&nbsp;as VAT is&nbsp;detailed in the localization configuration guide.&nbsp; Receipt Configuration A receipt is a conclusive document that confirms that payment has been made for a service/goods.&nbsp;The buyer can always request a receipt, but there is no obligation for the buyer to take a receipt.&nbsp;A receipt needs to include: Company information Date and time of issue Total amount paid Unique and sequential numbering VAT breakdown Additionally, best practice is also to include items. All additional information such as pictures, barcodes, QR codes, promotional messages, etc. can be included as there are no legal requirements. Receipt Configuration: Configuring receipts specific for a country&nbsp;is&nbsp;detailed in the localization configuration guide. Services There are no specific services exposed for Switzerland localization.