# Task Monitoring Process

**Permalink:** taskmonitoring-process
**Content Length:** 6,823 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:36:17.824565

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Inventory & Fulfillment&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Order Fulfillment&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Task Monitoring ››Task Monitoring Process Task Monitoring Process Menu Badge CountList in-progress TasksReassign TaskIdle TasksServices Task Monitoring allows store associates to view the in-progress pick tasks (shipment and pickup) and pack tasks (shipment, pullback/transfer, and store-initiated transfer) in the store. The store associate can reassign an in progress task to another associate if the current owner is unable to complete the task. To know more on the&nbsp; task monitoring activity during offline mode, please refer to the&nbsp;Store Offline Support&nbsp;page. Menu Badge Count A badge count on the Task Monitoring menu shows the number of in-progress tasks that exist in the store, giving the store manager quick visibility to open work. The Get Pending Fulfillments Menu count service is used to get the list of in-progress tasks. List in-progress Tasks Lists the in-progress pick and pack tasks. Also provides additional information about the in-progress pick ad pack tasks, such as when the task was created, how long the task has been in the inactive state and who is the current owner of the task. Associates can identify whether the pick task is related to the pickup or shipment order, similarly whether a pack task is associated with a shipment or store-initiated transfer or pullback/transfer order. Reassign Task If the task has been inactive for a long&nbsp;period of time, then the&nbsp;store associate can reassign the task to another associate. The store associate will get the list of the active associates who are currently not assigned to a similar type of task. For example, if the store associate is reassigning a pick task,&nbsp;then on searching for associates to reassign the task to, the search result displays the active associates who are currently not working on any pick task.&nbsp;An error message is displayed when the task is not in a valid state for reassignment. If a&nbsp;store associate self-assigns the task, then the associate navigates&nbsp;to that task immediately for completion. Note: At one point in time, a user can be assigned with a maximum of two pick tasks, one for the delivery method &quot;PickUpAtStore&quot; and one for &quot;ShipToAddress&quot;.&nbsp; Idle Tasks If a&nbsp;pick or pack task which is in progress has had no activity&nbsp;for longer than a&nbsp;configured amount of time, those tasks are shown as idle so that store managers can choose to reassign them. When navigating from the Task Monitoring menu option, all tasks are by default displayed on the UI. Users can apply a filter to show only those which are idle. Refer Picking Process and Packing process guides for additional information related to idle tasks and associated configuration. The idle task can also be configured as a store exception type. Refer&nbsp;to the Store Exception&nbsp;guide for details. Services The&nbsp;APIs listed in the following table are referenced in this document. Refer to the API documentation for additional details on&nbsp;each service. Service Component Group Service Endpoint List of in-progress task groups Fulfillment Task-group-controller Fulfillment/api/fufillment/taskGroup/list/inProgressTaskGroups List of eligible store users to reassign task groups Fulfillment Task-group-controller Fulfillment/api/fulfillment/taskGroup/reassign/listUsers/taskGroupId/ {taskGroupId}/taskType/{taskType} Reassign task groups&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Fulfillment Task-group-controller Fulfillment/api/fulfillment/taskGroup/reassignStoreTask Pending Fulfillments Menu count Fulfillment Fulfillment List Controller Fulfillment/api/fulfillment/fulfillment/pendingFulfillmentsMenuCount/organizationId/{organizationId}/locationId/{locationId} &nbsp; Idle Tasks Count Fulfillment Task-group-controller Fulfillment/api/fulfillment/taskGroup/getIdleTaskGroupsCount &nbsp; &nbsp;