# Time Clock Configuration

**Permalink:** time-clock-configuration
**Content Length:** 9,920 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:36:41.630463

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Common&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Time Clock ››Time Clock Configuration Time Clock Configuration This guide lists all the configurations needed for enabling Time Clock feature in Active Omni Store application. EventsClock StatusClocking ExceptionsTime Clock ConfigurationsResource IDsUI's and EntitiesProfile Purpose Events Events represent the clocking events that an employee can perform.&nbsp;These events are defined by the system and cannot be edited or deleted. Event Description Clock In This event is used when an employee clocks in for his shift. The clock in API defaults to this event if it is not mentioned explicitly. Clock Out This event is used when an employee clocks out for his shift. The clock out API defaults to this event if it is not mentioned explicitly. In from Break This event is used when an employee gets back to work after a break. Out for Break This event is used when an employee takes a break. &nbsp; Clock Status Clock Status represents the status of the user based on his/her&nbsp;clocking and indicates his availability for work. It can either be IN or Out.&nbsp; If the employee is a must-clock user, the status has to be IN to access the application. Once the clocked status&nbsp;is Out, Clock-In event updates the status to IN. Clocking Exceptions Clocking of an employee always occurs at the current time. There are instances where an employee would need to clock in or out in the past. During such occurrences,&nbsp;a reason for such exceptional clocking needs to be provided. Clocking Exceptions represents the reasons that can be configured in the system for those instances. Time Clock Configurations The Time Clock configuration UI lists all the following configurations to manage the way the time clock feature can be used. These configurations can be set at a particular store level if needed. Enable Time Clock The "Enable Time Clock" in the Time Clock Configuration UI controls whether a particular retailer (or store)&nbsp;uses the time clock to track employee working hours.&nbsp;When this configuration is on, the users are required to clock in/ out of the store. Time Clock - Track Break The "Time clock- Track Break' configuration can be turned on if retailer (or store) wants to track employee breaks. When the configuration is enabled, employees are shown options to take a break. Time Clock - Must Clock Out Duration in Hrs The "Time Clock - Must Clock Out Duration in Hrs' configuration represents the shift time of an employee. Based on the hours configured and employee's last clocked in time, a must clock out time is determined. If an employee clocked status indicates that he/she is IN after the must-clock-out time, his status is indicated as "IN with exception". When such an employee, attempts to use the application,&nbsp;he/she must clock-out with exception reason and clock back in. Tip: This feature is most helpful when employees forget to clock out on the previous day. If an employee works multiple shifts, the SOP should mandate clock-out and clock-in between their shifts.&nbsp; Time Clock - Force Clock-Out on Store Close The "Time Clock - Force Clock-Out on Store Close" controls whether all employees must clock out before store close. Employees who are IN are indicated in the end of the day screen. When enabled, all employees must be clocked out before closing the store. However, there is no validation in place that stops the user from closing the store if the current user was clocked-in. Time Clock - Clock-out reason for Store Close It is mandatory to provide exception reason while clocking out at a different time.&nbsp;Clocking exception for clocking the employees out during store close can be configured. The system throws an error is the exception reason is not configured. Resource IDs The following&nbsp;resources are needed for performing the necessary actions in the application. Resource Purpose masterdatafacade::timeClock::event::read This resource will display the menu entry for accessing the clocking events page masterdatafacade::timeClock::clockStatus::read This resource will display the menu entry for accessing the clock status page masterdatafacade::timeClock::clockingException::read This resource will display the menu entry for accessing the clocking exceptions page masterdatafacade::timeClock::timeClockConfiguration::read This resource will display the menu entry for accessing the time clock configuration UI's and Entities The configuration UI's mentioned in this document are listed in the following table, along with information to&nbsp;navigate&nbsp;to the API documentation. UI Name Component Group Seed Data Present? Seed Data Profile Time Clock&nbsp;Configuration Time Clock TimeClockConfiguration&nbsp;Services Yes Base Events Time Clock Event Services Yes System Clocking Exception Time Clock ClockingException&nbsp;Services Yes Base Clock Status Time Clock ClockStatus Services Yes System Profile Purpose The profile purposes of all the configuration entities are listed below.&nbsp; tmc::timeClockConfiguration