# Time Clock Process

**Permalink:** time-clock-process
**Content Length:** 14,687 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:36:40.699818

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Common&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Time Clock ››Time Clock Process Time Clock Process Employee time tracking is an essential part of maintaining an accurate payroll system. Retailers can lose a significant amount of money through erroneous time entries. Manhattan Active Omni solution provides store associates an ability to record the hours worked, breaks taken and related daily data.&nbsp;Ability to clock in and out in the same application that is used for other store functions&nbsp;helps the retailer to&nbsp;accurately measure the employees time. The time entries are then published externally&nbsp;that can be consumed&nbsp;for the payroll process. Must Clock UsersClocking-in&nbsp;and Clocking-outClocking in with missed Clock-OutTracking BreaksEnd of the day - Store Close&nbsp;Time Clock and Change Store&nbsp;&nbsp;Publish Time clock entriesServices Must Clock Users Store associates who are needed to Clock-In and Clock-Out daily to access the application should be identified and the must clock attribute for such employees should be set to true. This will ensure such users&nbsp;access the application features only after clocking in.&nbsp; Note: IT admins and store managers can be exempt from Time Clock by setting &#39;Must Clock&#39; attribute on the user to false. Clocking-in&nbsp;and Clocking-out Store associates can clock in after logging to the store application. This also eliminates the problem of &quot;buddy punching&quot;. The system decides the appropriate clocking option for the user based on his clocked status in the current store.&nbsp;The UserCurrentStatus service can be used to find the current clock status of the user in a specific store. User Clocked status Eligible Clocking Event IN The user can &#39;Clock Out&#39; or &#39;Out on Break&#39; OUT The user can &#39;Clock In&#39;. If &#39;OnBreak&#39; flag is true, User should &#39;In from Break&#39; to come continue work IN (with exception) This state indicates that the user is being clocked in for more than the configured shift hours. In this case, the user should &#39;Clock Out&#39; with exception and can &#39;Clock In&#39; again. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Clock In: The Clock In service is used&nbsp;for clocking in the store user. If the user specifies a past time for Clock-In, it is treated as an exception and a reason must be provided for the clocking&nbsp;exception. Once the user successfully clocks in, the system computes the &quot;MustClockOut&quot; time based on a configuration. Also, user&nbsp;clocked status is updated to&nbsp;IN for the corresponding&nbsp;store. Note: Must Clock Out time = Last In Time&nbsp;+ Max shift hours configured. Refer to Time Clock Configuration guide for more details. Clock Out: The&nbsp;Clock Out service is used&nbsp;for clocking out&nbsp;the store user. If the user specifies a past time for Clock-out, it is treated as an exception and a reason must be provided for the clocking exception. Once the user successfully clocks out, the system updates the user clocked status to OUT&nbsp;for the corresponding&nbsp;store.&nbsp; &#39;Must Clock Out&#39; time is set to null when status is Out and On break is false. Refer to Tracking Breaks&nbsp;section for more details. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; Clocking in with missed Clock-Out Employees can forget to clock out while leaving work and the next day when trying to clock back in, their status would still be IN. Based on the MustClockOut time, the system can deduce this condition and lets the employees clock-in with an exception for the previously missed clock-out. The time entry for the clock out will be marked with the exception so that payroll systems can account for them. Tracking Breaks If a retailer wants to track the breaks of the store associates, they can enable the &#39;Track Breaks&#39; to true in time clock&nbsp;configuration.&nbsp;Events &#39;Out for Break&#39; and &#39; In from Break&#39; are used for taking breaks. When an employee takes a break, clock out API should be used with Event &quot;Out for Break&quot;. The user clock status changes to Out and OnBreak&nbsp;flag is set to true in the userClockedStatus&nbsp;entity to indicate that a user is currently on break. Employee can clock back in using clock in API with event &quot;In from break&quot;. This updates the user clock status to IN to continue to work. Refer to the Time Clock Configuration guide for more details. End of the day - Store Close&nbsp; Retailers can make sure that all employees are clocked out by the end of the day when the store closes. When store manager/ associate&nbsp;try to close the store, clock out all the clocked-in employees is mandated based on a configuration. When the force clock out is set to true, the store can be closed only after all employees clock out. The&nbsp;&#39;Find all users with Clocked Status&#39;&nbsp;service can be used to get the summary of all the store employees who are currently clocked in. A specific clock out date and time should be selected for each of the associates for clocking them out. The &#39;Clock Out Users on Store Close&#39; service can be used to clock the associates out. An exception reason must be configured for clocking out the employees. Once all associates are clocked out, the store can be closed successfully. This clock out can be mandated&nbsp;using the configuration. Refer to Time Clock Configuration for more details. Time Clock and Change Store&nbsp;&nbsp; Employees are expected to clock out of their current store before attempting to change store. The system validates the current status before changing the&nbsp;store. After a successful store change, depending on the status of the user in the new store, time clock options are displayed.&nbsp; Publish Time clock entries The&nbsp;time clock feature captures the individual clocking and saves the information on TimeClockEntry&nbsp;table. Upon successful persistence, the time entry is also published to a queue. Any host system used for Payroll determination can consume them to use for payroll purposes. It could also be used for reporting purposes.&nbsp; Seed data is available to publish the message to internal queue. If the message needs to be sent to external queue, set the configuration&nbsp;in the Xint Component. Services The&nbsp;APIs listed in the following table are referenced in this document. Refer to the API documentation for additional details on&nbsp;each service. Service Component Group Service Endpoint User Current Status Time Clock UserClockedStatus Services /timeclock/api/timeclock/userCurrentStatus Clock In Time Clock TimeClockEntry Services /timeclock/api/timeclock/timeClockEntry/clockIn Clock Out Time Clock TimeClockEntry Services /timeclock/api/timeclock/timeClockEntry/clockOut Find all Users with Clocked Status Time Clock UserClockedStatus Services /timeclock/api/timeclock/userClockedStatus/status Clock Out Users on Store Close Time Clock TimeClockEntry&nbsp;Services /timeclock/api/timeclock/clockOutUsersOnStoreClose