# Track Order Status

**Permalink:** trackorderstatus
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning/Process &amp; Configuration Guides/Order Generation/Track Order Status
**Content Length:** 29,410 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:09:15.108064

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning››Process & Configuration Guides››Order Generation ››Track Order Status Track Order Status Previous I OverviewProcess FlowOrder Status PropagationTriggers to compute Order StatusConfigurationsMaintain Future Supply as part of ReservationRelated Articles Overview On Order Generation - Purchase Orders are released for Upper Echelon (DC to Vendor) and Retail/Distribution Orders are released for Lower Echelon (DC to Stores).  Buyers need visibility into the status of orders released to vendors and distribution centers (DCs) to determine whether the orders are still open, past due, in transit, or received. Key questions include: Are the purchase orders (POs) raised to vendors still open? How many orders are approaching their due dates? Are the orders fully or partially received (or shipped)? Has the vendor or DC canceled the order? This visibility helps buyers make informed decisions and take corrective actions with vendors or DCs. Multiple orders may be released for a single relationship (e.g., vendor to DC, or DC to multiple stores). The following statuses must be tracked in the supply chain planning (SCP) system: Past Due (Not Received): Orders with items/quantities still marked as "On Order" (for vendor orders) or "Reserved" (for transfer/distribution orders) that are past their expected delivery date (i.e., greater than the current business date). Open (Not Received): Orders with items/quantities still marked as "On Order" (for vendor orders) or "Reserved" (for transfer/distribution orders) with a future expected delivery date (i.e., less than the current business date). Partially Shipped/Shipped: Orders where shipments have been created for some or all items/quantities. Partially Received: Orders where some items/quantities have been received at the destination (e.g., DC or store) and added to "On Hand" inventory. Process Flow Order Status Propagation Order/ Order Line Status Order Line Events Order Line - Status Update (sample) Order Events Open On Order Create Order Created for 100 units Line Status: Open Min Status: Open Max Status: Open Order Qty: 100 On Order Create Partial Ship On Partial Ship of the Line On Ship of 80 units Line Status: Partially Shipped Min Status: Open Max Status: Shipped Order Qty: 100 Ship Qty: 80 On partial ship of units or line(s) Ship On Complete Ship of the Line On Ship of remaining 20 units Line Status: Shipped Min Status: Shipped Max Status: Shipped Order Qty: 100 Ship Qty: 100 On Complete ship of all line(s) Partial Receive On Partial Receive of the Line On receive of 80 units Line Status: Partially Received Min Status: Shipped Max Status: Received Order Qty: 100 Ship Qty: 100 Receive Qty: 80 On partial receive of units or line(s) Receive On Complete Receive of the Line On receive of remaining 20 units Line Status: Received Min Status: Received Max Status: Received Order Qty: 100 Ship Qty: 100 Receive Qty: 100 On Complete receive of all line(s) Cancelled On Full Cancel of the Line Line Status: Cancelled (Full Cancel before Shipment) Min Status: Cancelled Max Status: Cancelled Order Qty: 100 New Order Qty: 0 Ship Qty: 0 Receive Qty: 0 Line Status: Shipped (Partial Cancel during Shipment) Min Status: Shipped Max Status: Shipped Order Qty: 100 New Order Qty: 80 Ship Qty: 80 Receive Qty: 0 Line Status: Partially Received (Partial Cancel post Receiving. Missing Items) Min Status: Shipped Max Status: Received Order Qty: 100 New Order Qty: 70 Ship Qty: 50 Receive Qty: 50 Line Status: Received (Partial Cancel during shipment & post Receiving. Missing Items) Min Status: Received Max Status: Received Order Qty: 100 New Order Qty: 50 Ship Qty: 50 Receive Qty: 50 On Full Cancel of all line(s) Past Due CBD > EDD Current Business Date is greater than Expected Delivery Date on the Order Line and Min Status <> Received At least one line passes CBD > EDD Triggers to compute Order Status Triggers to compute Order Status Note: Refer to prerequisites - Maintain future supply to use this feature. Order Generation Purchase Orders (POs) and Distribution Orders (DOs) are created and released to vendors or distribution centers (DCs). Corresponding PO supply records are generated for these orders. Shipping Upon shipping by a vendor or DC, an Advance Shipment Notice (ASN) with the shipped quantity is interfaced with the inventory system. Any updates to the supply in the inventory system trigger a supply change event, which initiates the Track Order Status Flow in the Supply Chain Planning (SCP) system. Receiving When a DC or store receives a shipment, the shipped quantity is deducted from the ASN, and the on-hand inventory is increased at the receiving location. Any inventory updates trigger a supply change event, which initiates the Track Order Status flow in SCP. Shortages or Cancelations Vendors or DCs can send messages indicating order cancelations or shortages, which adjust PO supply in the inventory. These adjustments also trigger a supply change event, initiating the Track Order Status Flow in SCP Track Order Status Flow During a supply change event (e.g., PO or ASN updates), the system retrieves the latest supply information for the order. It calculates the minimum and maximum status at both the order line and order level to reflect the current order status accurately. The Latest Order Status for a relationship can be viewed under Suggested Order Details UI. Configurations Maintain Future Supply as part of Reservation To generate PO supply as part of lower echelon orders (DC to Store), the following parameters need to be turned on. This is a prerequisite for Order Short/Cancel flow updates to work. /api/inventory/inventoryParameters/save { "InventoryParametersId": "defaultInventoryParameters", "MaintainFutureSupplyOnReservationEvent": true } Related Articles Order Generation