# Translation Guide

**Permalink:** translation-guide
**Path:** Administrator Tools/Translation Guide
**Content Length:** 30,754 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:14:07.157594

---

Home ››Administrator Tools ››Translation Guide Translation Guide Translation GuideLanguage DeterminationUser's Parent LanguageUser's Selected LanguageOrder LanguageEdit Order LanguageDate/Time FormatLabel TranslationLogin Page LabelsUI LabelsPOS customer receipt LabelsDocument LabelsData TranslationCustomer ServiceStore Inventory and FulfillmentPoint of SaleItem Language SelectionSupported LocalesServices A locale defines attributes of a geographical region, such as language, and date/time formats. Certain features in Manhattan Active™ Omni honor the locale of a user or customer by translating labels, retrieving data in a given language, or by formatting dates accordingly. This guide gives an overview of translation capabilities within Manhattan Active™ Omni for supporting users across different locales. This document describes two different types of translations which are supported: Label Translation - Application menus, labels and messages are displayed in the user's parent language. For example, if a CSR's parent language is Spanish, the application labels can be displayed in Spanish to that user (rather than English.) These labels are messages stored in resource bundles, and some are available out of the box as starter packs which can be overridden by the project team as needed. Data Translation - In addition to labels and messages, certain data is eligible for localization which allows users to see that data in his/her language. For example, a CSR with a parent language of English can view item details in French when assisting a French customer. These translations reside in child tables and must be bridged in by the customer for the required languages. Language Determination The language that is used for label or data translations is based on the definitions below. User's Parent Language Users must be assigned a parent locale. This drives the application behavior for label, message and data translations, as well as date/time format. For example, if a user with parent locale of French logs into the application, all the labels will be displayed in French language, and the date/time format used by France ('DD-MM-YYYY HH:MM') is used. User's Selected Language Users can be configured to have with multiple child languages (in addition to their assigned parent language.) The user can choose to switch to one of these languages in order to display data for a customer interaction in the customer's language. This is referred to as the "selected language' and is temporary for the given login/transaction. If the user logs out and logs in, the application defaults back to the user's parent language. Note: The selected language does not affect the language of the labels. The selected language is used for translation of data. Order Language During order capture, the customer's language can be saved in the Order Locale attribute of the Order entity. If data translations are present for that language, the item attributes which are eligible for data localization (style, color, size, description, etc.) are saved on the order in the customer's preferred language. Item attributes from item master are saved on the order line based on the input order locale. If no translation exists for the input language, then the default item translations from the parent table are copied to the order line. Order line attributes which are populated on order import are always honored. For example, if order line attributes are null on import and the order language is French, then the item attributes in French will be saved on the order line. However, if the order language is French but the order line attributes are populated in Spanish, then the order is saved as is; there are no validations. The order language is copied from the order to any subsequent return or exchange orders. Order language is also present on all outbound messages published, including the publish order, release, and sales posting messages, in case it needs to be used by downstream systems. Edit Order Language Order locale change is not supported once the order is created. Date/Time Format Date and time fields in Active Omni application are localized based on the user's parent locale. 3 of the most commonly used formats are MM-DD-YYYY HH:SS, DD-MM-YYYY HH:SS and YYYY-MM-DD HH:SS with the time format being in either 12 or 24-hour format. In addition, within each format on some screens the application may show shorter versions of the format. For example, when capturing birth-date of a customer in Active Omni Point of Sale, only month and date fields are captured and displayed (i.e., MM-DD or DD-MM without the year.) Note: For the Active Store application, application configuration can define the date/time format. The system first checks if the ‘Date format’ and/or ‘Time format’ are populated in the POS Store Configuration UI. If so, these values determine the date and/or time formats. If set to ‘None’, the system falls backs to the user’s locale as mentioned above. Refer to POS Cart configuration for more details. Label Translation Manhattan Active™ Omni uses locale-specific resource bundles to display labels and messages. This structure allows region-specific resource bundles to be supported for languages that have multiple locales. Starter language packs for labels and messages are available out-of-the-box for supported languages. Base product labels can be overridden with your own project-specific translations for a particular language when desired. Login Page Labels Manhattan Active™ Omni login screen can also be localized to display labels in other languages as needed. Labels and messages displayed in the login screen comes from the auth-server component and does not belong to regular localization  bundle as we will not know the user locale before successful login. Refer to Login page customization guide for UI Labels Labels and messages displayed on the user interface are always based on the parent language of the user. POS customer receipt Labels Manhattan Active™ Omni store application uses logged-in user's locale to display labels on the printed receipt. This will allow store users to print receipts in a language specific to the region. Stores operating on borders, i.e. multi-lingual region stores, can also leverage "Item Selection" functionality to print receipts in language based on "Item language" selection. This will override user locale while printing receipts. Existing Store customers need to make sure they have copied all base report jrxmls to receipt localization to work Existing Store customers using custom jrxml to print receipts in other languages will not be impacted by this feature unless they explicitly remove the custom logic. Document Labels Document Product Language for report labels Packing Slip SIF Order language (customer-facing document) Pickup Slip SIF Order language (customer-facing document) Picklist SIF User parent language (not customer-facing) Data Translation Manhattan Active™ Omni supports data translation of certain text fields. Customers can import and manage the translations using APIs for those fields that support data translation. Translations can exist for multiple languages. For an entity, these data translations are stored in child tables with a record for each language. Translations can be maintained for none, some, or all of the localizable attributes based on business requirements. If a localized field does not have translations, the value from the parent table is used. Data translation is currently supported in multiple entities. The following entities support data localization: Entity Component Item Item Catalog Item Category Item Fulfillment Reason Fulfillment Fulfillment Tag Name Fulfillment Fulfillment Priority Group Fulfillment Adjustment Reason Name SIM Carrier Parcel Service Level Parcel Package Type Parcel Refer to the localized attributes section in the Master Data Guide for more details, including how to populate the translation values. The Get Item, Category, Catalog, Fulfillment Reason, Fulfillment Tag, Fulfillment Priority Group, Store Inventory Adjustment Reason, Carrier, Service Level, and Package Type APIs can be used to retrieve all the translated values. Refer to Picking configuration guide for details on Fulfillment tag names and Fulfillment Priority Group localization. Customer Service CSRs can select a child language in Item Search UI to facilitate the customer interaction when Call Center configuration "Enable Item Attribute Localization" is turned on. Selected language is applicable only for item search and listing the item search results. Application labels and date/time format are always based on user's parent locale and does not change with the language selected. This table indicates which language is used to display localizable item detail attributes based on function. Function Based on Notes Item Search User's Selected Language Item Language dropdown defaults to the user's parent language.  On selecting a different language, CSR can search for items in the selected language. The item search results will display translated data when a matching record is found for the search criteria. If there is no matching record found for given search criteria then the item list UI will display no matching data found. The item details will also list the localized data for an item if the localized data is maintained else displays in base value. Cart Order Language Once an item is added to the cart, orderLocale is set as the selected language and order line item attributes are translated, and the same is displayed on edit order and status screens. In case of order modifications, the CSR cannot update the language once the order is created. Return Order Order Language Order language is copied from the pare order to the return order and user will not be allowed to update the language. Info: When selected language is used and there is no matching translated data for the search criteria, the search will not fall back to searching against base value. The message "No Item found" is displayed. Store Inventory and Fulfillment Manhattan Store Inventory and Fulfillment displays item details in different languages on fulfillment and inventory functions. This table indicates which language is used to display localizable item detail attributes based on function. If translations are not available for certain item attributes, the default value from the parent table is used. Info: The language used for labels is always determined based on the user's parent language. Store Inventory and Fulfillment does not use the user's selected language. Function Based on Notes Fulfillment Creation Order Language When a release message from Active Omni Order is consumed, the order language is copied down to fulfillment. If the item details are not sent in the release, the item details are pulled from item master based on the order language to fulfillment lines. Note: Fulfillment instructions provided in the order are not translated and will be displayed as stored in the order. Picking User's Parent Language If the picklist is grouped by store department, the translated store department in user's language is displayed during picking. Picklist (Document) User's Parent Language Staging User's Parent Language Sorting User's Parent Language Pickup Slips (Document) Order Language Order language represents the language in which the customer placed the order. Hence the customer-facing reports are created in that language. Packing User's Parent Language Packing Slip (Document) Order Language Order language represents the language in which the customer placed the order. Hence the customer-facing reports are created in that language. Contact Customer User's Parent Language Return to Shelf User's Parent Language If multiple fulfillments are selected for return to shelf, the items are grouped by store department. Translated store department value is displayed. View Inventory User's Parent Language The keyword search can be done by the associate using his/her parent language. For example, a Spanish user can search for 'blue' color item using 'azul' as search keyword. Adjust Inventory User's Parent Language Receive Inventory User's Parent Language Cycle Counts User's Parent Language Reprint Documents User's Parent Language Though the physical reports are printed in the order language,  the functional screen is displayed in user's language for the store associate to trigger the reprint of the documents. Pullbacks & Transfers Order's Language Point of Sale Item Language Selection Store associates can select a child language in Item Search UI to facilitate a customer interaction when the POS Store configuration "Show item language selector" is turned on. Selected language is applicable only for item search and listing the item search results. For example, if an associate has English, French and Spanish defined in the list of their child languages, they can display the item attributes in these languages (provided the translations exist.) This table indicates which language is used to display localizable item detail attributes based on function. Function Based on Notes Global Item Search User's selected language Items can be searched using the keyword in the selected language. Search results are fetched in the selected language. Once the item is selected the Item Details like Item Short Description, Item Image, Item Description, Color and Size is displayed in the selected locale. Browse Catalog User's selected language When an associate selects a specific Category from the Catalog, the Short Description and the image is displayed in the selected language. The language translations are also available for the Style option in the Viewing section of the Category Screen. Cart User's selected language The user's selected language is populated to the Order Language. The store associate can make the language selection from the Cart screen by accessing the menu option. This can only be done if there is no transaction started. The selected language description is highlighted in the Item Language dropdown box. During the order creation, the language used to create the order is captured in Order Locale field. The associate can continue to add item in the cart and the item details are displayed in the order language Once an item is added to the cart, the language cannot be changed. Similarly, if a coupon, discount etc. is added to the cart, the language selection option gets disabled and the rest of the transaction is carried out in order's language, as these transactions generate order id. The associate cannot change the language when a transaction is in progress. To change the language, the transaction needs to be completed or voided. Returns/Exchanges with receipt Order language When the customer presents the original order during return, the language on the return order is persisted from the Order language. If Items are returned from 2 different orders from 2 different languages, return order will have order language from one of the parent order. However order line details are pulled from the respective orders. Receipts printed will have the item description printed in the order's language. Returns/Exchanges without receipt User's parent language Wherever a return or exchange is initiated in the absence of a receipt the user parent language defaults for the return order creation. Electronic Journal Order Language At the Electronic Journal the Item Attributes will be displayed in the language the order was created. For Ex: If the order was created in English then the Item Attributes is in English, if it was created in French then the Item Attributes is in French in the Electronic Journal. The other labels and data apart from Item Attributes is displayed as per the store associate locale. Note: The language selection can be done from the Catalog screen as long as no transaction has been started. The selected language only affects the language used for localizable item attributes. Application labels and date/time format are always based on user's parent locale. Supported Locales Manhattan Active® Omni supports the following locales for label and data translations, in addition to others. Language starter packs are available for some of these locales. Please work with services for the latest list of supported locales. If a starter pack is not available for any supported locale, a starter translation pack can be provided. As part of the implementation, the language pack should be tested and validated for translations, spacing, and display on the UI in different form factors and with longer literals. Locale Language Region/Country Starter Language Pack cs Czech Czech Republic Yes da Danish Denmark Yes de German Germany Yes el Greek Greece Yes en English The United States Yes en-GB English The United Kingdom No es Spanish Spain Yes fr French France Yes fr-CA French Canada No hi Hindi India Yes hr Croatian Croatia Yes hu Hungarian Hungary Yes it Italian Italy Yes ja Japanese Japan Yes ko Korean South Korea Yes nl Dutch Netherlands Yes pl Polish Poland Yes pt Portuguese Portugal Yes pt-BR Portuguese Brazil Yes ro Romanian Romania Yes sk Slovak Slovakia Yes sv Swedish Sweden Yes th Thai Thailand Yes tr Turkish Turkey Yes vi Vietnamese Vietnam Yes zh Simplified Chinese China Yes zh-TW Traditional Chinese Taiwan Yes Services The APIs listed below are referenced in this document. Refer to API documentation for additional details on each service. Service Component Group Service Endpoint Get User Organization User Services organization/api/organization/user/userId/{userId} Get Item Item Item Services item/api/item/item/ItemId/{ItemId} Get Category Item Catalog Services item/api/item/catalog/catalogId/{catalogId} Get Catalog Item Category Services item/api/item/category/categoryId/{categoryId} Get Fulfillment Reason Fulfillment Fulfillment Reason Services fulfillment/api/fulfillment/fulfillmentReason/fulfillmentReasonId/{fulfillmentReasonId} Get Store Inventory Adjustment Reason SIM Store Inventory Adjustment Reason Services sim/api/sim/storeInventoryAdjustmentReason/adjustmentReasonId/{adjustmentReasonId} Get Carrier Parcel Carrier Services parcel/api/parcel/carrier/carrierCode/{carrierCode} Get Service Level Parcel Service Level Services parcel/api/parcel/serviceLevel/carrierCode/{carrierCode}/serviceLevelCode/{serviceLevelCode} Get Package Type Parcel Package Type Services parcel/api/parcel/packageType/packageTypeId/{packageTypeId}