# Trigger to Compute SOQ (Replenish vs. Allocation)

**Permalink:** trigger-to-compute-soq
**Content Length:** 8,845 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:37:29.025746

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process &amp; Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Orchestration ››Trigger to Compute SOQ (Replenish vs. Allocation) &nbsp; Trigger to Compute SOQ (Replenish vs. Allocation) &nbsp;I&nbsp; OverviewProcess Flow&nbsp;Triggers point for SOQ Computation&nbsp;:&nbsp;SOQ Computation :Implementation FlavorsUIs and EntitiesServicesTroubleshootingRelated Articles Overview The&nbsp;Suggested Order Quantity (SOQ) is a key concept in inventory management,&nbsp;SOQ is a&nbsp;recommended quantity of inventory that should be ordered to optimize&nbsp;inventory levels and associated costs.&nbsp; Objective:&nbsp;To&nbsp;keep optimal inventory to meet customer demand while being cost-effective Goal:&nbsp;To determine the amount of inventory to keep in stock&nbsp; The Suggested Order Quantity (SOQ) computation is triggered whenever there is a change in inventory, demand, supply, or forecast. Specifically, any updates or changes in inventory levels or demand will lead to recalculation (computation) of the SOQ,&nbsp;ensuring that the order quantities are always aligned with the latest data.&nbsp; &nbsp; Process Flow&nbsp; &nbsp; Triggers point for SOQ Computation&nbsp;:&nbsp; Inventory Change - Whenever there&nbsp;is an update in inventory levels (e.g., stock depletion, new stock arrival), the SOQ calculation will be initiated to adjust order quantities based on the current stock. Forecast/ Demand Change - Whenever there is a change&nbsp;in demand patterns (e.g.&nbsp;increase or decrease in customer orders),&nbsp;the SOQ calculation will be initiated&nbsp;to ensure that the order quantities meet the new demand levels. SOQ Computation : When there is a trigger due to a change in&nbsp;supply, or forecast, a message is sent to the Inventory Optimization (IO) component. Upon receiving this message, the IO component checks whether the item is replenishment or allocation. If the planning type is set to &quot;R&quot; the item is considered replenishable. If not set then it is considered as Replenishable. If the planning type is set to &quot;A&quot; the item is categorized for allocation. Save Replenishment Items - /api/item/item/save { &quot;Description&quot;: &quot;AllocationItem&quot;, &quot;ItemId&quot;: &quot;AllocationItem&quot;, &quot;PlanningAttribute&quot;: { &quot;PlanningType&quot;: { &quot;PlanningTypeId&quot;: &quot;R&quot; } } } Save Allocatable Items - /api/item/item/save { &quot;Description&quot;: &quot;AllocationItem&quot;, &quot;ItemId&quot;: &quot;AllocationItem&quot;, &quot;PlanningAttribute&quot;: { &quot;PlanningType&quot;: { &quot;PlanningTypeId&quot;: &quot;A&quot; } } } Once the IO component determines the item type, it triggers either the replenishment engine or the allocation engine accordingly. If Item is &quot;R&quot;, the&nbsp;IO component invokes the replenishment engine, which calculates the Suggested Order Quantity (SOQ). The calculated SOQ is then persisted or updated in the IMS, LIM, and IMF entities. If it is&nbsp;part of allocation, the IO component triggers the allocation engine, which calculates the RAQ. The calculated RAQ deatil is then persisted or updated in the IMS, LIM, and IMF entities. This process ensures that the appropriate engine is invoked based on the item type, optimizing inventory management by accurately calculating and updating the necessary quantities in the system. &nbsp; Implementation Flavors NA UIs and Entities NA Services NA Troubleshooting NA Related Articles &nbsp;