# Troubleshooting Returns & Exchanges

**Permalink:** troubleshooting-returns-exchanges
**Content Length:** 6,583 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:34:33.870914

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Returns & Exchanges ››Troubleshooting Returns & Exchanges Troubleshooting Returns &amp; Exchanges Previous &nbsp; ReturnsOn confirming my return order, I received an errorWhen importing a&nbsp;return order through the base Order Save API, an OrderChargeDetail of ChargeTypeId &#39;Return Fee&#39; is not saving onto the return order.Item details are copied from the parent order and not from the item master Returns On confirming my return order, I received an error Note: If using contact center, try creating a return for the same order in the contact center UI. If you are not able to create a return, then the issue is not with DSS but is likely with some order data/configuration. If you are able to create a return in contact center but not DSS for the same order, then follow the below&nbsp;steps for troubleshooting DSS returns. Check to see if the parent order is fully paid (payment status = Paid). Check the Kibana logs for the given trace ID (retrieve the trace ID from browser dev tools).&nbsp;If the log says &#39;Missing or invalid shipper&#39;, then check that a valid carrier facility account exists for the return center ID you have configured in your Self Service Configuration. Check if the return label configuration is complete: Check in the Order Parameters UI to see if &#39;Generate Return Label on Confirmation&#39; is enabled. If enabled, the system attempts to generate a return shipping label on confirmation. If disabled, then skip this troubleshooting step, as the system is not attempting to generate a return label. Make a GET order call for your return order Id (this orderId is not displayed in DSS; use the Order List UI or search using the parent order to get the orderId) Find the ShippingMethod and the ShipToLocationId on your return order line(s) In the Shipping Methods UI, find the&nbsp;Shipping Method Ship Via configured In the Ship Via UI, check the carrier defined for this ship via On the Carrier Facility Accounts UI, ensure there is a valid account configured for this Carrier and for the return center on your order line (the ShipToLocationId found above) Check the Kibana logs for the given trace ID (retrieve the trace ID from browser dev tools). If using UPS for return labels and&nbsp;the log has an error similar to&nbsp;&quot;Package[1]/ReferenceNumber[1]/Value cannot be bar-coded,&quot; then the return order ID exceeds the max number of characters supported by UPS. If using UPS for generating return labels in DSS, you must configure the order ID generation logic (see details here). When importing a&nbsp;return order through the base Order Save API, an OrderChargeDetail of ChargeTypeId &#39;Return Fee&#39; is not saving onto the return order. ReturnFee will always be re-evaluated based on mod type config like for critical updates, return line add, quantity change etc. To honor the return fee sent in the order payload and not re-evaluate on return line creation, add the below JSON tags at the header level. &quot;OrderActions&quot;: { &quot;IsReturnFeeApplied&quot;: true } Whenever there is an update on the return line (such as a quantity change), the system will re-evaluate the return fees, and will remove such return fees if the corresponding return fees config is not present. Item details are copied from the parent order and not from the item master For return orders imported from external systems, the item details are copied from the parent order and not from the item master. For example,&nbsp;when an exchange order is created for an item with a different ItemId (with the same style and different size) and you reference the parent order in the Return/Exchange, the item details are copied from the parent order and not from the item master, resulting in picking the old size for the item in spite of creating a new order with the different size/color. You need to pass the size and other required attributes for the item during even exchange order import.