# Troubleshooting Digital Self-Service

**Permalink:** troubleshootingdigitalselfservice
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Order Management/Process & Configuration Guides/Digital Self-Service/Troubleshooting Digital Self-Service
**Content Length:** 47,864 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:55:51.499246

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Order Management››Process & Configuration Guides››Digital Self-Service ››Troubleshooting Digital Self-Service Troubleshooting Digital Self-Service General TroubleshootingThe DSS page does not load or gives an error: "Something Went Wrong"The DSS page does not load at all - not even an error messageCustomers in production report issues accessing the DSS pageWhen I load the page, I get an error and instead of seeing my branding/logo, I see the Sophia's logoThe item images appear blurry in the Digital Self-Service pageIn the DSS UI, some information is missing for my items (color, size, description)In DSS, when I click the email link on the iPhone, Safari displays an error that the webpage cannot be displayedThe DSS page loads, but all the titles and field labels are not formatted well. (e.g. YourOrderIsReadyForPickupPageTitle, PickupInstructions1, etc.)My order has more than 10 items, but I only see the first 10. How can I see others?Curbside Pickup TroubleshootingThe DSS UI loads with instructions and store details, but no items are displayed in the 'Items Ready for Pickup' section.The DSS UI says the 'Order is already picked up' and does not allow the user to click 'I'm at the store'In the DSS UI, some items are missing from the 'Items Ready for Pickup' sectionThe DSS curbside "I'm on my way" page isn't displaying a location promptNo ETA is shown in store, when the customer accesses the DSS "I'm on my way" pageShipment Tracking TroubleshootingIn Shipment Tracking, I receive the 'Tracking details are not yet available' response.My package status, ETA, or tracking details are not displayed.The 'Track Package' link in my email does not open the Digital Self-Service applicationI do not see any items on the Shipment Tracking pageReturns & Exchanges TroubleshootingI received a "Something went wrong" error when selecting items to return or exchange and pressing "Next"When confirming my return order, I get an errorI'm not receiving an email when my items shipThe 'Create Return' link in my email does not open the self serve applicationThe button to generate the return shipping label is disabledAfter I select items and reasons and select 'Next', I get an error such as: code=pcl::10001, description=Ship via not found for the shipVia UPSThe 'Exchange' option is not enabledI don't see any size or color drop-downs, when I select the 'Exchange' check boxI'm unable to confirm my exchange order because the order total is greater than zeroEmail messages and publish order is not generated for return orders created in DSS for in-store pickup ordersPay by Link TroubleshootingThe Pay by Link panel does not appear in the contact centerThe Digital Self-Service UI says the link is expiredHow to automatically close the parent PayByLink window upon closing a child window, which was implemented as part of customizationExtend Pickup Window TroubleshootingI'm not receiving an email when my items are pickedThe Extend Pickup Window' link in my email does not open the self-service applicationManage Order(s)Item status shows "Returned" even when the item shows "Pending Return" in the contact center"Track Return" is visible even after a return order is canceledUnable to cancel return orders using Digital Self-ServiceSMS Opt-In to receive order updates  The country code is not auto-selected and no validation is performed for the SMS Opt-In phone numberWhy is the refund not created when standalone refund execution in the refund-by-link flow is implemented with a non-base payment gateway (Verifone) Locate your issue in the below list and follow the troubleshooting steps. General Troubleshooting The DSS page does not load or gives an error: "Something Went Wrong" Use your browser dev tools to find the request; if it has failed it may be highlighted in red. Select the 'Network' tab and select this failed request. Open the 'Response' tab and find the failed API call in red. If there is no API call which looks like this, then your URL is missing a required attribute. Ensure your URL has orderId, orgId, token, and locationId. If you found the API call in red with an error response, locate your response from the list of errors below. Error Code How to Troubleshoot 10001 Could indicate the orderId in the URL is invalid/does not exist. Otherwise, ask services to verify the order component is up. The template may be missing in the order component. To validate this Call GET /order/api/fwcore/responseTemplate?size=2000 in Postman Verify if a template with templateId "SelfServiceParentOrder" is present Call GET /fulfillment/api/fwcore/responseTemplate?size=2000 in Postman Verify if the template SelfServicePickupExpiryTemplate is present in the fulfillment component If not, check with services to get the required template. 10002 Date format is wrong 10003 Indicates that the token value in the URL does not match the orderToken value saved on the order.Make a GET Order API call to get the latest token and compare with the value in the URL. 10004 Path or request parameter of URL must have orderId and orgId and token 10005 Indicates that the organization mapping is missing for the orgId given in your URL. Check that your orgId is correct in the URL. If it is correct and you still see this error, ask services to check if the org mapping entry in the self service consul server is correct. 10007 OrgId is missing from the URL 10008 Fulfillment component is down/threw an error 10009 Feature flag is not enabled 10064 Indicates that the Self Service Config is missing. Add this in the Self-Service Config UI: Add an entry with SelfServiceConfigId = Default Select other attributes as required (e.g. configure a link from the DSS header logo to e-commerce) Save Unable to locate an active provisioning profile for organization abc Indicates that no active provisioning profile can be found for the org which is configured in the KV store organization mapping. For instance, if the KV store orgID = abc but the provisioning profile has active profile ID = ABC (capitalized), then this would be a mismatch. Ensure your orgId in the KV store matches the exact string of the org Id. HTTP 403 Try opening the same URL in an incognito browser window. If you have the application open in a different browser tab, this can happen and you may need to use an incongito window. Or, grants for the configured user may not be sufficient. Ask services to add a catch-all grant for the user. The DSS page does not load at all - not even an error message Ensure your URL uses https://... not http://... If your hostname is configured in the component properties "selfServiceHostName" property in Order Component (path: CONFIG/COM-MANH-CP-ORDER,OM-SIDE/ ), then check that this configuration includes https protocol. If generating the URL in a third-party email or e-commerce application, then check the URL logic there. Customers in production report issues accessing the DSS page First, try to isolate the issue to the email/text: Ensure the email/text link contains the full DSS URL. If not, check your mapping in the Email Message or Publish Order JSON. Get these outbound messages and check if the SelfServiceUrl is populated. Note: If using the Publish Order message to generate emails, your email provider/integration layer will need parsing logic to cover all scenarios. For example, if during store picking one item is rejected and one is picked, then the SelfServiceUrl will be populated for the picked item but null for the rejected item in the Publish Order message. This is one reason why we recommend using the Email Message JSON instead of Publish Order for email generation, as the complex logic is already done in Active Omni, and the email provider does not need to handle scenarios like this. Place an order in production (or ask for a 'ready for pickup' email from the IT team) and open the email in a variety of email clients (Outlook, Apple Mail, Gmail, Yahoo, etc.) in a variety of devices. If clicking the button does not launch the DSS page, then there may be an issue with the email HTML formation. For example - If the email HTML does not have the correct protocol defined, then Outlook might automatically add “applewebdata://” instead of http://, in which case the button would not work. For more email troubleshooting tips, see the Transactional Emails guide. If the email/text link correctly launches the DSS page in all email clients, then find the specific error message/scenario in this list. When I load the page, I get an error and instead of seeing my branding/logo, I see the Sophia's logo If OrgId is missing from the URL, we cannot authenticate or fetch the custom CSS styling. OrgId is a required URL parameter and needs to be provided to load the custom styling (including logo). This is not a scenario we expect to happen in production; This is a mapping issue that should be identified during testing and fixed in the integration layer, email, text, or e-comm button. The item images appear blurry in the Digital Self-Service page A minimum item resolution of about 225 x 375 pixels is recommended for the item ItemSmallImageURI. Item images with a lower resolution may appear blurry. It's currently not possible to display the item LargeImageURI in the Digital Self-Service pages. In the DSS UI, some information is missing for my items (color, size, description) Use Chrome dev tools to find the request per the above steps. In the API response, check if your field is present. If the field is present in the response with null values, then check your order to ensure these values are not null on the order. If the field is missing from the API response, then check the template in the order component, to ensure it has all required fields for the UI. The seed data template has all required fields, but someone could have modified it. For example: Price is displayed as null on the UI, and the 'Price' field is completely missing from the API response when looking in Chrome dev tools. Price needs to be added to the template in the order component to resolve this issue. In DSS, when I click the email link on the iPhone, Safari displays an error that the webpage cannot be displayed Open the safari app on your desktop and open the URL in Safari. Safari will ask if you trust this website - say yes and proceed. The DSS page loads, but all the titles and field labels are not formatted well. (e.g. YourOrderIsReadyForPickupPageTitle, PickupInstructions1, etc.) Check the locale value in your URL - if the locale value is not valid (does not exist in the list of supported locales), then the keys are displayed (e.g. 'curbsidePickupTitle'). Ensure the locale in the URL is valid. My order has more than 10 items, but I only see the first 10. How can I see others? This is currently not possible; DSS displays up to ten (10) items, along with a "+ X more" message to indicate that some items are not shown. Curbside Pickup Troubleshooting The DSS UI loads with instructions and store details, but no items are displayed in the 'Items Ready for Pickup' section. The store location is incorrect in the URL, or the items are not yet in picked status (e.g. they are backordered or released). The DSS UI says the 'Order is already picked up' and does not allow the user to click 'I'm at the store' The fulfillment is already in picked up status. In the DSS UI, some items are missing from the 'Items Ready for Pickup' section The items are not in picked status in the fulfillment component. Only items in Picked status are displayed. The DSS curbside "I'm on my way" page isn't displaying a location prompt Your Google API key may be missing from the consul server. Check this configuration. No ETA is shown in store, when the customer accesses the DSS "I'm on my way" page If you're receiving a browser prompt to share your location, then ensure you click 'Yes'. Without location sharing, the store receives the 'on my way' notification but no ETA. If you do not receive this prompt, check your device/browser settings to ensure location sharing is enabled. Lastly, the Google account used should have the distance matrix API enabled. If this service is not enabled for your account, then no ETA will be sent to store. Shipment Tracking Troubleshooting In Shipment Tracking, I receive the 'Tracking details are not yet available' response. Use Chrome dev tools to find the request; if it's failed it may be highlighted in red. Select the 'Network' tab and select this failed request. Open the 'Response' tab and find the API call which looks like "orderid?email=xyz@manh.com?orgId=orgId" (or replace email with phone). If you found the API call in red with an error response, locate your response from the list of error codes/messages. If there is no API call which looks like this, then your URL is missing a required attribute. Ensure your URL has orderId, orgId, and email or phone. My package status, ETA, or tracking details are not displayed. Get the tracking number and carrier code from your DSS URL. Call the parcel tracking API for this order id: POST /parcel/api/parcel/track { "carrierCode": "UPS", "externalAccount": false, "trackingNumbers": [ "1Z12345E6205277936" ] } You should see a valid response with tracking details. If not, ensure your carrierCode has valid integration configured for package tracking and that your tracking number is valid. The 'Track Package' link in my email does not open the Digital Self-Service application Check the value of the environment URL in your emailTemplate entity in the email component, and ensure it points to the correct environment. Use GET /email/api/email/emailTemplate?query="Name='Sample Shipment Confirmation template'" and CTRL +F for "tracking.html?" to find the URL. I do not see any items on the Shipment Tracking page Get the tracking number, carrier code, and order id from your DSS URL. Call the get order API for this order id: GET /order/api/order/order/orderId/{orderId} In the response, check the fullfillmentDetail entities. If no items on the order were shipped using this tracking number, then no items are displayed. If the carrierCode is null or invalid, then the package status cannot be tracked. Returns & Exchanges Troubleshooting I received a "Something went wrong" error when selecting items to return or exchange and pressing "Next" Navigate to the Self Service Configuration UI and check the following: The return center is configured with a valid location id Selling Channel is configured with a valid selling channel (this is used to create return orders) Order Type is configured with a valid order type (this is used to create return orders) Ensure the shipped date of your parent order is within the return age policy (EventDate on the ship Order Event). Note: If using contact center, try creating a return for the same order in the contact center UI. If you are not able to create a return, then the issue is not with DSS but is likely with some order data/configuration. If you are able to create a return in contact center but not DSS for the same order, then follow the above steps for troubleshooting DSS returns. When confirming my return order, I get an error Note: If using contact center, try creating a return for the same order in the contact center UI. If you are not able to create a return, then the issue is not with DSS but is likely with some order data/configuration. If you are able to create a return in contact center but not DSS for the same order, then follow the below steps for troubleshooting DSS returns. Check to see if the parent order is fully paid (payment status = Paid). If the log says 'Missing or invalid shipper', then check that a valid carrier facility account exists for the return center ID you have configured in your Self Service Configuration. Check if the return label configuration is complete: Make a GET order call for your return order Id (this orderId is not displayed in DSS; use the Order List UI or search using the parent order to get the orderId) Find the ShippingMethod and the ShipToLocationId on your return order line(s) In the Shipping Methods UI, find the Shipping Method Ship Via configured In the Ship Via UI, check the Carrier defined for this ship via On the Carrier Facility Accounts UI, ensure there is a valid account configured for this Carrier and for the return center on your order line (the ShipToLocationId found above) Check the Kibana logs for the given trace ID (retrieve the trace ID from browser dev tools). If receiving error code ord::10121 (description=ShipFromAddress is required on Return OrderLine...), then return label creation is failing because the parent order line does not have a ship-to address which can be used as the ship-from address on the return line. For example, if a POS item or BOPIS item is returned, the return line will not have a ship-from address. To solve these cases, a default ship-from address can be configured (details here). If using UPS for return labels, check the logs for these exceptions: \"Package[1]/ReferenceNumber[1]/Value cannot be bar-coded," - The return order ID exceeds the max number of characters supported by UPS. If using UPS for generating return labels in DSS, you must configure the order ID generation logic (see details here). "The Shipper's shipper number cannot be used for the shipment" - Reach out to the UPS account manager. The UPS account may have configuration issues, billing issues, etc. I'm not receiving an email when my items ship Check the Generating Emails troubleshooting guide. The 'Create Return' link in my email does not open the self serve application Check the value of the environment URL in your emailTemplate entity in the email component, and ensure it points to the correct environment. Use GET /email/api/email/emailTemplate?query="Name='Sample Shipment Confirmation template'" and CTRL +F for "return.html?" to find the URL. The button to generate the return shipping label is disabled Ensure that return shipping method is enabled for at least one shipping method. Use the Shipping Methods UI and select Return Shipping Method = true. Check that the facility account number has been configured for the return center which is configured as the self service return center. Use the Carrier Facility Accounts UI to configure carrier accounts. The Ship Via is used to map the Shipping Method to the Carrier. The order line typically has a shipping method, and the system needs a carrier facility account to generate the label. To link the shipping method to the carrier facility account, the system retrieves a ship via for the order line shipping method (top ranked ship via), finds the carrier for this ship via, then finds the carrier facility account for this facility. Ensure that the appropriate Ship Via is populated in the carrier Shipping Method. After I select items and reasons and select 'Next', I get an error such as: code=pcl::10001, description=Ship via not found for the shipVia UPS This means that an invalid ship via is configured for the shipping method being stamped on your return lines. Shipping method is copied from the parent order line, so find the shipping method, then go to the Shipping Method UI and find the Shipping Method Ship Via. Check the ship vias to ensure they exist in the system (Ship Via UI). Correct/add a valid ship via and try to create your return again. The 'Exchange' option is not enabled If you do not see the 'Exchange' option at all, then exchanges are likely disabled. Navigate to the Self Service Configuration UI and check the 'Enable Exchanges' checkbox. If you see the 'Exchange' option but the checkbox is disabled, check the following: The parent order line ‘isExchangeable’ attribute must be true – like the ‘isReturnable’ attribute, this can be used by retailers to deem items such as ‘final sale’ or ‘digital’ items as not returnable or exchangeable. The parent order line delivery method must be ship to address, this means that we have a shipping address which can be used for exchanges. If the delivery method is pick up in store or ship to store, then exchange will be disabled for this item. This is because the self-service UI does not yet have a way to capture a shipping address. When exchanges are enabled, configure the Availability View which should be used to check inventory of exchange items. I don't see any size or color drop-downs, when I select the 'Exchange' check box If an item does not have any size or color options in the item master, then no drop-downs will appear. For instance, if three different items exist with item style 'Cardigan', but all three items have Size = null on the item master, then no size dropdown will appear because there are no sizes for the customer to select. The same behavior exists for color. If there are sizes and colors in the item master but no dropdowns appear, then ensure that the items have item price records created. If no item price record exists for an item, it does not appear in the exchange options list. I'm unable to confirm my exchange order because the order total is greater than zero Currently, only $0 exchange orders (or those resulting in a refund) are supported. Check your order config to ensure that return fees are not applied to self-service exchanges. Check the S&H rules to ensure that return shipping is not being charged for your self-service returns. Email messages and publish order is not generated for return orders created in DSS for in-store pickup orders Configure the organization address for the address type “Return Shipping Label” in the Organization UI. Pay by Link Troubleshooting The Pay by Link panel does not appear in the contact center Check in the Payment Parameters UI to see if you've enabled the Pay by Link Text and/or Pay by Link Email. The Digital Self-Service UI says the link is expired The payByLinkExpiryDate is in the past on your order. Create a new order so that the link expiry period will be in the future. How to automatically close the parent PayByLink window upon closing a child window, which was implemented as part of customization This is currently not possible as DSS does not have control over the parent tab. The suggested approach is to implement a pop-up and close the tab based on the response, instead of implementing a new child window. Extend Pickup Window Troubleshooting I'm not receiving an email when my items are picked Follow the steps in the email configuration section. Audit each config included in the collection to ensure it's correct. For example, check that the mod type config has 'Publish Order' enabled for picked status. Check the outbound queue 'PublishOrderEvent' to ensure outbound messages are making it to the queue. Check the email log (GET /email/api/email/emailLog) to see if any success or failure was logged for your order. The Extend Pickup Window' link in my email does not open the self-service application Check the value of the environment URL in your emailTemplate entity in the email component, and ensure it points to the correct environment. Use GET /email/api/email/emailTemplate?query="Name='Sample Ready for pick up template'" and CTRL +F for "pickuplater.html?" to find the URL. Manage Order(s) Item status shows "Returned" even when the item shows "Pending Return" in the contact center On the Manage Orders page, all return-related statuses have been categorized as "Returned". In this case, the "Pending Return" status indicates that the item has not reached the distribution center, but as far as the original order is concerned, a return order has already been created for the item. "Track Return" is visible even after a return order is canceled This is as designed; the return was created at one point, so the track return is still valid. Unable to cancel return orders using Digital Self-Service Digital Self-Service does not support canceling the return order independently through customer order cancel order flow. The only way you can cancel an existing return order is via Returns and Exchanges UI. To cancel a return order, perform the following steps: Set parameter ‘Enable Manage Returns’ to true in DSS config Navigate to the ‘Returns and Exchanges' UI for parent order > select return method > click the Manage Returns option on the Item selection page. SMS Opt-In to receive order updates The country code is not auto-selected and no validation is performed for the SMS Opt-In phone number The country code value in drop down will be auto-selected to match the country code in the shipment tracking detail of the parcel API response. Based on the country code selected, the phone number format defined for that country is used for validating the phone number. In the case of an invalid tracking number, there is no country code found in the Parcel API response, so none of the values from the country code drop-down will be auto-selected and hence no phone number format will be selected to validate the phone number. In this case, the "Sign Up" button will be disabled; it will be enabled only when a valid country code is chosen by the user. Why is the refund not created when standalone refund execution in the refund-by-link flow is implemented with a non-base payment gateway (Verifone) Scenario: When implementing the Digital Self-Service refund-by-link feature with a non-base payment gateway, a refund is not created, even though the payment method is saved with the ExecutionMode set to CalculateAndExecute, or a CalculateAndExecute Payment Request API is triggered after the payment method is successfully saved via the third-party gateway. Solution: Ensure that the standalone refund processed through Digital Self-Service includes a negative amount. When the amount is negative, the refund will be triggered correctly. Sample Payload { "PaymentMethod": [ { "CardType": { "CardTypeId": "VISA" }, "PaymentType": { "PaymentTypeId": "Credit Card" }, "Extended": { "VerifoneCheckoutId": "cf2a77d5-005b-4d5b-b935-81db5105f4c7", "TokenExpiryMonth": 8, "TokenExpiryYear": 2029 }, "Amount": "-212.00", "CurrencyCode": "USD", "AccountNumber": "0194598052021111", "ChargeSequence": null, "CardExpiryMonth": 8, "CardExpiryYear": 2029, "AccountDisplayNumber": "Account ending with 1111", "BillingAddress": { "Address": { "FirstName": "John", "LastName": "Rivera", "Address1": "2300 Windy Ridge Pkwy SE", "Address2": null, "Address3": null, "City": "ATLANTA", "State": "GA", "PostalCode": "30339", "Country": "US", "Phone": null, "Email": jrivera@manh.com } }, "NameOnCard": "John Rivera" } ], "OrderId": "CC1003331", "ExecutionMode": "CalculateAndExecute" }