# Types of Order Events

**Permalink:** types-of-order-event
**Content Length:** 6,188 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:34:10.795765

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Processing&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Fulfillment&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Events ››Types of Order Events Types of Order Events Previous&nbsp;I&nbsp;Next &nbsp; ShipPickupShortStatus UpdateFulfillment UpdateRelated Article(s) Ship The Ship event occurs&nbsp;when an execution system such as a WMS or Store Fulfillment ships an item. For example,&nbsp;a customer places an order, and the order gets released to the DC for fulfillment. After the DC has picked and packed the item, the DC generates a ship event to communicate&nbsp;the details of the shipment including tracking number, service level, and so on. Pickup The Pickup event occurs&nbsp;when a customer picks up an item in store. For example, a customer places an order to pick up items&nbsp;in a local store, and the order gets released to the store for fulfillment. When the customer arrives and picks up the item, the store generates a Pick-Up event to communicate&nbsp;that the order quantity has been picked up. &nbsp;The details of the pickup include&nbsp;the date, package number, and so on.&nbsp; Short Short events occur when an execution system cannot fulfill an item due to lack of&nbsp;inventory, capacity constraints, and so on. For example, a customer places an order, and the order gets released to the DC for fulfillment. When the DC goes to pick the item, the only unit is damaged, so the DC generates a short event to communicate that the allocation should be canceled, and another location should be considered for fulfillment.&nbsp; Status Update This is used when an execution system generates a status update during fulfillment. For example, a customer places an order, and the order gets released to the store&nbsp;for fulfillment. When the store waves the item, an &quot;In Progress&quot; status update is generated to update the order status. When the store picks the item, a &quot;Picked&quot; status update is generated to update the order status. When the store packs the item, a Packed status update is generated to update the&nbsp;status. These statuses are used to provide visibility to customer service and customers&nbsp;about the&nbsp;fulfillment lifecycle of an order. Once the order is delivered, the delivered status&nbsp;is updated by an external system using the same status update message.&nbsp; Fulfillment Update Fulfillment Update&nbsp;events can be used to capture any updates to fulfillment&nbsp;attributes impacting the order or order lines without any changes to status and quantity.&nbsp;For example, if a customer extends their&nbsp;pickup expiry date&nbsp;for a BOPIS order line, the Fulfillment Update is used to communicate the updated expiry date from fulfillment to order. Order Events can be sent via&nbsp;API or queue. To use queue-based messaging, configure the service definition to link to a queue. Note: If you have multiple order events in a list, all events are processed together. Even if one event fails, the whole transaction will be rolled back. Related Article(s) REST APIs and User ExitsDelivery Method Update EventsSubstitution During FulfillmentShort EventsOverviewFulfillment Update EventsShip EventsStatus Update Events