# UI Resources - Enterprise Inventory

**Permalink:** ui-resources-enterprise-inventory
**Content Length:** 5,856 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:33:39.864939

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Enterprise Inventory ››UI Resources - Enterprise Inventory UI Resources - Enterprise Inventory ATC has certain features that require special grants to perform the desired function.The following table describes the various grants associated with ATC. Grants Details inventoryfacade::viewdefinition::readwrite To view/create/update ATC and perform the below view actions inventoryfacade::viewdefinition::activatedeactivate To activate/deactivate a configuration for the commerce view inventoryfacade::viewdefinition::rebuild To rebuild an active configuration inventoryfacade::viewdefinition::syncview To sync an active configuration inventoryfacade::viewdefinition::preview To preview metrics of a configuration in the commerce view.&nbsp; inventoryfacade::outagerule::fulfilmentOutage To create/update fulfillment outage webtop::inventory::fulfillmentoutage::read To view fulfillment outage webtop::inventory::atc::read To view/rename/delete other view actions Note: There is no resource available just to view the ATC&nbsp;UI &nbsp; Note:&nbsp;Currently, there is no view-only permission for the ATC configuration UIs. Inventory Supply have certain features that require&nbsp;special grants to perform the desired function. Grants Details omnifacade::inventory::supplydetails::read To view the Inventory Supply screen. omnifacade::inventory::supplydetails::reseterror&nbsp; To view the reset error button. &nbsp; Interactive Inventory Parameters have certain features that require&nbsp;special grants to perform the desired function. Grants Details masterdatafacade::inventory::interactiveInventoryParameters::read Provides the menu option and allows users to view the existing configurations. masterdatafacade::inventory::interactiveInventoryParameters::createupdate Allows users to create a new configuration or update an existing configuration. masterdatafacade::inventory::interactiveInventoryParameters::delete Allows users to delete an existing configuration. masterdatafacade::inventory::locationcapacityutilization::read Provides the menu option and allows users to view inventory location capacity utilization. &nbsp; Inventory Parameters have certain features that require special grants to perform the desired function. Grants Details omui::inventory::menu::InventoryParameters Provides the menu option to access inventory parameters. omui::inventory::inventoryparameters::edit Allows users to edit inventory parameters. omui::inventory::inventoryparameters::details Allows users to access the details of the inventory parameters. &nbsp; &nbsp; Promising Config Parameters have certain features that require special grants to perform the desired function. Grants Details omui::promising* Allows users to access the Promising Config Parameters UI