# UI Theming and Customization

**Permalink:** ui-theming-customization
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Omni/Order Management/Process & Configuration Guides/Digital Self-Service/UI Theming and Customization
**Content Length:** 103,472 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T21:55:42.540548

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Omni››Order Management››Process & Configuration Guides››Digital Self-Service ››UI Theming and Customization UI Theming and Customization OverviewHow UI Theming WorksWhat Cannot be CustomizedHow to Link the DSS Header LogoHow to Add Menu OptionsHow to Link DSS Item ImagesHow to Modify CSSHow to Modify CSS Once You're LiveHow to Test Temporary CSS Changes in the BrowserHow to Modify UI ElementsUI Theming Quick StartLogoText Font, Color, and SizeShipment Tracking Status IconsReturn Method Type IconsButtonsResponse Message ColorsBordersBackground ColorsCardsCheckbox Colors  Icon ColorsPage Counter ColorsExtension PointsImplementing Extension Points Previewing Extension Points Overview Digital Self-Service (DSS) can be customized to fit the look and feel of your brand. This guide describes what can be customized within Digital Self-Service and how to configure it. The following can be customized: Top banner logo Text font, color, weight, line height Color for backgrounds, buttons, icons Text labels, button text, instructions, error messages, etc. - Any text you see in the UI can be customized (can be customized by locale; see the Localization & Customizing Labels guide for details) Text attributes such as font, color, weight, and line height can vary by HTML headings (h1, h2, h3, h4, etc.) versus the paragraph text. For instance, titles can have a different font weight than sub-titles or paragraph text. These changes can be made for all DSS pages. Customized theming files must be stored in a publicly-accessible location, such as a CDN, e-commerce web server, etc. There is no Manhattan-hosted CDN to upload files. How UI Theming Works The theme of the Digital Self-Service UI can be customized by using CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) framework called Bootstrap. If a retailer would like to provide different DSS UI Styling based on brand (child organization level), they can do so by configuring in Self Service Configuration the Custom CSS URL at the organization level. Once the URL is provided and saved, the DSS UI will be updated in real-time and a restart is not required. Each brand (organization) can have unique styling configured. Custom CSS can only be used to change documented class variables. Custom CSS must not be used to change the behavior of the application, such as changing the form URL. The following can be customized via CSS: Header logo Logo-container Font (family, size, style, height) Text color for primary text Text color for error messages Background, text, and border color of primary buttons Background, text, and border color of disabled buttons Card color, border width, and corner radius Card body Note: When uploading a custom variable.css file, make sure to remove any base references to images or fonts (like ../assets/font). Keeping these references can cause issues and lead to runtime errors. An entry in the variable.css is required only if you want to use custom icons. If you want to use out of the base icons, please do not override them in your variable.css. The base variable.css looks like: .onitsway-new { mask: url('../assets/img/onitsway.svg') no-repeat 50% 50%; } Custom variable.css looks like: .onitsway-new { mask: url('../mycloudinary/path/customonitsway.svg') no-repeat 50% 50%; } What Cannot be Customized The following UI elements cannot be customized: Application behavior (URL endpoints, behavior when button is clicked, etc.) Background images below the header Adding custom sections/panels, e.g. product recommendations Adding custom links, e.g. 'Leave product review' Adding custom buttons, e.g. 'Help' Changing which fields are displayed in the UI (instead of item color, size, one wants to display department, product class) Hiding attributes/fields, buttons, or other UI elements Changing the sequencing of fields in the UI (e.g. moving color, size, price) Making the top banner sticky, e.g. to support a global navigation menu Authentication values, e.g. using customer last name to authenticate in the URL parameters Routing button clicks/API calls to custom endpoints. For example, there is no capability to add custom logic to set the return center, selling channel, or order type on when creating return orders in DSS. These attributes are currently populated from the Self Service Config. Displaying conditional text/labels. For example, displaying different text for exchange orders versus pure returns on the returns confirmation UI. Only variables exposed in the _variables.scss file can be modified. The custom.css file should not be directly modified, as these changes may break basic functionality and will not be supported. How to Link the DSS Header Logo The header logo image should be customized by following the below CSS configuration guide. This logo can optionally be linked to the e-commerce site, or any other URL. To configure the web URL for the logo, navigate to the Digital Self-Service Config UI in the application menu. Populate the Web URL for Logo attribute with the desired endpoint in the format "https://www.manhattanassociates.com". How to Add Menu Options To align the Digital Self Service UI more closely to the e-commerce experience, retailers can configure a header menu to be displayed with the configured logo. The menu options are configured in the Digital Self Service Configuration UI, in the Header Menu Config tab. Each option can be configured with an associated hyperlink and sequence. When clicked, the link opens in a new browser tab. The alignment of the header menu is configured in the Digital Self Service UI in the Detail tab, and can be set to display to Left, Right, or Below the logo. How to Link DSS Item Images Images of items in DSS can be linked to an e-commerce product details page, or any other URL. To link item images, populate the item WebURL field with the webpage URL on the Item interface, or populate the ItemWebURL field on the order line. If the ItemWebURL is null on the order line during creation, then the WebURL from the item is copied and stamped on the order line. How to Modify CSS Step 1: Download CSS files Download the zip file by appending /selfservice/styles.zip to your environment URL. For example, https://environmentURL/selfservice/styles.zip. The zip file should be automatically downloaded. Step 2: Modify fonts, colors, etc. in the CSS file Open the variable.css file found under the styles in a text editor. Edit this file as required by adding new fonts, colors, etc. See below for more details on how to modify the CSS file. Note: Files in the styles/base folder should not be modified. These contain structural elements like height, width, margin, and padding. Step 3: Upload the CSS file to a CDN Upload the variable.css file to a CDN (Content Delivery Network, such as Cloudinary). Ensure that the filename is variable.css. Get the URL of your uploaded file. You should have a URL similar to https://res.cloudinary.com/xyz/raw/upload/v123/variable.css Take the base of the URL by removing "variable.css" from the end. Using the above URL as an example, we have https://res.cloudinary.com/xyz/raw/upload/v123/ Step 4: Apply the CSS to your environment Update the DSS config to point to this new URL, so that the application reads the new CSS configuration. Provide the URL from step 4 to services and ask them to update the CSS styling in the consul server. Please request services to make the following changes in the consul server: Navigate to KEY/VALUE > CONFIG > COM-MANH-CP-SELFSERVICE Add a new parameter "selfservice/customCSSUrl" with the value from the previous step. Remember to remove "variable.css" from the end of the URL provided by your CDN. For example: https://res.cloudinary.com/xyz/raw/upload/v123/ Restart the self service component. Once your component is up, reload the page in the browser and your changes should be reflected. Note: Alternatively, you can set the CSS URL directly in the DSS application at the organization level, without needing to change the KV store or restart the component. How to Modify CSS Once You're Live Repeat the steps above. After testing changes in a lower environment, work with services to update the custom CSS file endpoint in the consul server. How to Test Temporary CSS Changes in the Browser To test CSS changes temporarily in the browser without saving them in the application, you can validate using the changes by modifying style.css file. Note: This does not save changes permanently. To save changes, follow the steps above to upload the updated CSS file to CDN, etc. How to Modify UI Elements UI Theming Quick Start To quickly customize a few variables which have the largest impact, start here.Below is the short list of variables which can be changed with the biggest impact. The sections below take a deeper dive into all possible variables which can be customized. UI Element CSS Element CSS Variable Logo Logo URL background: url('addLogoURLhere') Font Font Family Add the new font family @import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Catamaran'); Replace ‘Montserrat’ with the new family name (e.g. ‘Catamaran’) in all set-font locations Colors Text, Button, Card Colors In the out of the box CSS: Replace $cardinal with $newColor1 (cards/buttons) Replace $charcoal with $newColor2 (text) Replace $bermudagrey with $newColor3 (title text) The following sections describe each CSS variable which can be customized. For each variable, a description is given as well as an example of the default value (using the “Sophia’s” brand) versus a different, customized value. Logo The logo image must be stored in a CDN with a publicly-accessible URL. There is no Manhattan-hosted CDN to upload logo files, so images must be uploaded to a CDN or other publicly-accessible location. The following logo features are found under the “.logo” section of the SCSS file: Description CSS Variable Default Value Customized Value Logo URL background: url Sophia’s Logo 3 stars Number of times logo is repeated background-repeat no-repeat no-repeat Logo position background-position center center center center Logo size background-size contain contain Logo height (for square image vs. rectangular) Note: The width is set to 100%, so the aspect ratio will be honored once the height is set. logo-height 2rem 2rem Default Logo Customized Logo Example When Menu Headers are implemented via DSS Config, the logo cannot be moved to the full width of the page. Text Font, Color, and Size The following sections describe how to customize text font, color, and size. Font Family Any new font can be imported. Multiple font families can be used. You can find free fonts here: https://fonts.google.com. To import a font family, add a tag such as: @import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Roboto:400'); @import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Montserrat'); Text Size The following font size variables are found under the “Font-sizes” section of the SCSS file: $xx-small: 0.6rem; $x-small: 0.8rem; $small: 0.9rem; $small-x: 0.9375rem; $medium: 1rem; $medium-x: 1.2rem; $x-large: 1.3rem; $large: 1.5rem; $large-x: 2rem; $large-xx: 2.5rem; $large-xxx: 3rem; To modify font sizes and line height, modify the existing variables or add new variables. For instance, variable you could modify the variable $large to1.72 rem instead of 1.5 rem by updating: $large: 1.7rem; Or, add a new variable so that existing variables are not affected: $largest: 1.7rem; To use this new size for a particular element: h2 {line-height: $largest;} Global Font Settings The global font settings are used to declare a default style for the font which is used across the application. To change the font everywhere in Digital Self-Service, update the global font. @mixin set-font( $family: 'Montserrat', $size: $medium, $weight: 400 , $style: normal, $line-height: $large ) { font-family: $family , 'sans-seriff', 'Helvetica'; font-size:$size; font-weight: $weight; font-style: $style; line-height: $line-height; } For instance, to change the font from Montserrat to Catamaran, update the font as follows: @mixin set-font( $family: 'Catamaran', $size: $medium, $weight: 400 , $style: normal, $line-height: $medium-x ) { font-family: $family , 'sans-seriff', 'Helvetica'; font-size:$size; font-weight: $weight; font-style: $style; line-height: $line-height;} More Granular Font Settings The global font settings can optionally be overridden for particular elements. For instance, the global font size is medium (1.2 rem), but below we set the font size to small (0.9375 rem) for the body text. Similarly, the h1, h2, h3, h4, h5, h6, and p groups can be separated to include more granular font settings. In the below example, h1 - h6 are uppercase, while p remains sentence case. body { @include set-font('Catamaran', $small, 400, normal, $medium-x);} h1, h2, h3, h4, h5, h6 { @include set-font('Catamaran'); text-transform: uppercase;} p { @include set-font('Catamaran');} Text Color The following text features are found under the “Text Colors” section of the SCSS file: Description CSS Variable Default Value Body text color $bdy-txt-clr $charcoal Page title text color $page-title-clr $bermudagrey Store name color $store-name-color $black Item description color $item-name-color $black Note text color $note-clr $nobel Error text color $err-txt-clr $crimson Calendar date picker highlight color $datepkr-highlt-clr $darkblue Forms text color including drop downs, etc. $frm-txt-color $charcoal Link text color $lnk-txt-color $cardinal Sample custom note text color: Import does not work with variable.css. New font family needs to be defined using the URL of the .ttf file and then used within the CSS. Shipment Tracking Status Icons To customize the status image displayed for the out of the box shipment statuses, modify the images in the below variables: .delivered { background-image: url('#{$image-assets-path}/Delivered-new.svg'); } .onitsway { background-image: url('#{$image-assets-path}/Onitsway-new.svg'); } The status image cannot be customized for custom statuses. Return Method Type Icons To customize the images displayed for the return method, modify the images in the below variables: .return-mode-store-icon { background-image: url('../assets/img/store-duotone.svg'); } .return-mode-mail-icon { background-image: url('../assets/img/box-alt-duotone.svg'); } .return-mode-qr-icon { background-image: url('../assets/img/icon-printerless-dropoff.svg'); } Buttons There are four styles of buttons used: primary, secondary, default, and disabled. For each button style, the button color, font, and border color can be customized. Primary Buttons Description CSS Variable Group Default Value Customized Value Background color $primary-btn-bg-clr: Primary button styles $cardinal; $blue; Text color $primary-btn-txt-clr: Primary button styles $white; $white; Border color $primary-btn-bdr-clr: Primary button styles $cardinal; $blue; Default Button Customized Example Secondary Buttons Description CSS Variable Group Default Value Customized Value Background color $secondary-btn-bg-clr: Secondary button styles $white; $white; Text color $secondary-btn-txt-clr: Secondary button styles $cardinal; $orange; Border color $secondary-btn-bdr-clr: Secondary button styles $cardinal; $orange; Default Button Customized Example Disabled Buttons Description CSS Variable Group Default Value Customized Value Background color $disabled-btn-bg-clr: Disabled button styles $lightgrey; $lightblue; Text color $disabled-btn-txt-clr: Disabled button styles $bdy-txt-clr; $charcoal; Border color $disabled-btn-bdr-clr: Disabled button styles $pattensblue; $blue; Default Button Customized Example Response Message Colors Variable Group Description Base Value Customized Value $pickup-disabled-btn-bg-clr Pickup UI Variables Background color of the 'I'm at the store' button in the curbside pickup up, in its disabled state. $cardinal; $black $pickup-success-respnse-bg-clr Pickup UI Variables Background of the response message "We're on it! Please wait in your vehicle.." in the curbside pickup UI. Displayed after the user clicks the 'I'm at the store' button. $lightgreen; $lightgrey $pickup-error-response-bg-clr Pickup UI Variables Background of the error response message displayed in the curbside pickup UI. Displayed after the user clicks the 'I'm at the store' button, if an exception occurs. $lightpink; $lightpink; Borders Border features which can be customized are listed below. Description Variable Group Default Value Customized Value Border color $border-color: Text Colors $pattensblue; $cardinal; Card border color $card-bdr-clr: Card styles colors $nobel; $darkblue; Common border color used for input, dropdowns, etc. $gnrl-bdr-clr: Border colors $nobel; $royalblue; Border color used between the sections, lists, etc. $divider-clr: Border colors $pattensblue; $cardinal; Border color used for thumbnail images $thumb-img-bdr-clr: Border colors $blueviolet; $cardinal; Common border size $gnrl-bdr-size: Border size 1px; 5px Card border radius $card-bdr-radius: Corner radius 0.5rem; 3rem; Default Borders Customized Borders Background Colors The following background colors can be customized. Description Variable Group Default Value Customized Value Body background color; applies to the entire background except for jumbotron (return in store section), footers, and cards $bdy-bg-clr: Text Colors $white; $white; Footer background color (applies to bottom footer with ‘NEXT’ button on multi-step flows like returns) $ftr-bg-clr: Background colors $whitesmoke; $greyblue; Jumbotron background color (Return in store section) $jumbo-bg-clr: Background colors $whitesmoke; $greyblue; Calendar date picker highlight color (Pick up later calendar) $datepkr-highlt-clr Bootstrap highlight date picker $cardinal $darkblue Default Background Colors Customized Background Colors Cards The following card elements can be customized. Description Variable Group Default Value Customized Value Card header background color $card-hdr-bg-clr: Card styles colors $cardinal; $greyblue; Card header title text color $card-title-clr: Card styles colors $white; $darkblue; Card border color $card-bdr-clr: Card styles colors $nobel; $darkblue; Shadow style for card $shadow-black: Card styles colors rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.0); rgba(255,0,0,0.3); Default Cards Customized Cards Checkbox Colors Description Variable Group Default Value Customized Value Checkbox background color, when checkbox is enabled $frm-chk-act-bg-clr: Background colors $cardinal; $charcoal; Checkbox border color, when checkbox is enabled $frm-chk-act-bdr-clr: Border colors $cardinal; $cardinal; Default Checkbox Customized Checkbox Icon Colors Variable Group Description Base Value Customized Value $badge-bg-clr Badge Color Background color of numbered instruction icons. Currently used in the curbside pickup page. $cardinal $blueviolet $badge-clr Badge Color Text color of numbered instruction icons. Currently used in the curbside pickup page. $white $white $phone-icon-clr Phone and Map Icon Color Background color of the phone icon. Currently used in the curbside pickup page. $cardinal; $blueviolet; $map-icon-clr Phone and Map Icon Color Background color of the map icon. Currently used in the curbside pickup page. $cardinal; $blueviolet; Default Icon Customized Icon Page Counter Colors Variable Group Description Base Value Customized Value $ftr-steps-active-bg-clr: Page Counter Styles Page Counter Color $cardinal; $blue; $ftr-steps-active-bdr-clr: Page Counter Styles Page Counter Border Color $cardinal; $blue; Default Counter Customized Counter Extension Points Extension points have been added for select Digital Self Service pages, outlined below. Developer mode is also enabled for these UIs so that users can easily view and export extension points. The Digital Self Service UI is designed to support various customer-specific requirements by extending the base user interface. This capability is enabled via extension hooks provided by the application in pre-defined locations in the base user interface. The different extensibility options include adding text fields and buttons, and the ability to hide panels. iFrame is also available on select flows. Within the iframe, the parameters OrderId, OrderToken , and OrgId can be used to query relevant APIs (like get Order) to get additional information that might be needed. UI Page Extension Points Returns and Exchanges Field: Item selection page, below “Select Items to Return by Mail” and above “Return All/Exchange All” Hide/Remove: Item selection page, "Return All Items" button Hide/Remove: Item selection page, Return In Store panel Field: Item selection page, below items Field: Item selection page, below "Return All Items" button Hide/Remove: Return/Exchange selection, "Return" button Hide/Remove: Return preview page, Estimated payment amount and payment type Field: Return preview page, below Refund Summary Button: Return review page, below Refund Summary Field: Return confirmation page, below Order ID Hide/Remove: Return confirmation page, find carrier location (available only for printerless return flow) Button: Return confirmation page, under carrier drop off instruction (available only for printerless return flow) Button: Return confirmation page, below return instructions Hide/Remove: Return confirmation page, View Return Label button Field: Return confirmation page, above QR code (available only for printerless return flow) Field: Return confirmation page, below QR code (available only for printerless return flow) Button: Return confirmation page, above return items (available only for printerless return flow) Hide/Remove: Return confirmation page, Estimated payment amount and payment type Field: Return confirmation page, below Refund Summary Button: Return confirmation page, below Refund Summary (center aligned) Order Cancellation Field: Cancellation preview page, below Order Summary Field: Cancellation confirmation page, below Order Summary Hide/Remove: Order line selection check box Shipment Tracking Field: Below tracking number Button: Below tracking number Return Tracking Field: Below tracking number Button: Below tracking number Pay By Link Field: Below summary Button: Below summary iFrame: Below summary Payment Recovery Field: Below summary Implementing Extension Points The Digital Self Service UI can be displayed in "Developer Mode" to enable users to view possible extension points and add extensions at the system level. To navigate to the DSS URL in Developer Mode, append "&developermode=true" to the end of the URL. Follow the UI prompts along with implementation details below to add extension points. Upon click of 'Add' in the UI, extension points are displayed on the right side in the 'Available Extensions' section. Saved extensions can be deleted within this panel. Upon click of 'Save', extension points are saved and can be exported to post via Postman. Implementation Details Navigate to the desired URL and append "&developermode=true" to the end of the URL. A green panel is displayed at the top of the page. Click the extension point (this could be a settings icon, a field label, or button, etc. A pop-up is displayed where the user can add base component extensions. Follow the prompts in the pop-up to add the details for the extension point. Click "Add" on the bottom of the pop-up. A record of the change is displayed on the right panel. Click "Done" on the bottom of the pop-up. The pop-up closes. On the top green panel of the UI, click "Export UI-Extensions". Copy the JSON text from the export and enter into the "Content" section of the below API. POST: {{url}}/pro/api/proActive/extensionPack/save { "ExtensionPackId": "DSS-Ext", "ExtensionPackVersion": [ { "PackVersion": "1.0", "PackLockVersion": 0, "UiExtension": { "Component": "selfservice", "Content": [ { "ScreenId": "dss::create-return", "Extensions": [ { "ExtensionId": "nearest-store-panel-hide", "ExtensionDetail": [ { "ExtensionType": "base-component", "ExtensionProperties": { "Label": "Hide Rule", "IsHidden": true } } ] } ] } ] } } ] } Retrieve extension pack using below API GET: {{url}}/pro/api/proActive/extensionPackForNexus?extensionPackID=DSS-Ext&extensionPackVersion=1.0&templateName=ExtensionPackInNexusFormatTemplate Copy the response and input into the "Content" section of the below API. POST: {{url}}/selfservice/api/fwuiextension/uiExtensionMetadata/save { "PackVersion": "1.0", "Content": "[\n  {\n    \"ScreenId\": \"dss::cancel\",\n    \"Extensions\": [\n      {\n        \"ExtensionId\": \"dss-cancel-preview-charge\",\n        \"ExtensionDetail\": [\n          {\n            \"ExtensionType\": \"field\",\n            \"ExtensionProperties\": {\n              \"Label\": \"Discount included in item price\",\n              \"Sequence\": 1,\n              \"Field\": {\n                \"Type\": \"label\",\n                \"Align\": \"row\",\n                \"KeyStyle\": {},\n                \"ValueStyle\": {\n                  \"font-weight\": \"normal\"\n                },\n                \"StaticLabel\": true\n              }\n            }\n          }\n        ]\n      }\n    ]\n  },\n  {\n    \"ScreenId\": \"dss::create-return\",\n    \"Extensions\": [\n      {\n        \"ExtensionId\": \"nearest-store-panel-hide\",\n        \"ExtensionDetail\": [\n          {\n            \"ExtensionType\": \"base-component\",\n            \"ExtensionProperties\": {\n              \"Label\": \"Hide Rule\",\n              \"IsHidden\": true\n            }\n          }\n        ]\n      }\n    ]\n  }\n]", "Component": "selfservice", "ApplicationId": null, "ExtensionPackId": "DSS-Ext" } Previewing Extension Points When in Developer Mode, use the 'Preview' toggle atop the Contact Center UI to preview all extension points for the given extension pack.