# UI Overview 

**Permalink:** ui_overview
**Content Length:** 18,238 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:36:31.294735

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Inventory & Fulfillment&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help ››UI Overview UI Overview ThemeFavoritesTime ClockItem Attributes LocalizationCopy/paste from the Store&nbsp;browser UI The Home screen allows easy navigation to various functions once a user logs into the application. The Hamburger icon on the Home screen opens the Store Menu. The Menu pane has the following options: - navigates to the Favorites pane. - navigates to the UI help. Settings - navigates to the Settings screen. Users can update the settings as required. Logout - logs out of the application. Theme Application theme can be changed from settings screen. Out of box 3&nbsp;themes are supported. Dark (Out of the box theme) Default (Light theme. It needs to be explicitly selected and saved to bring it into effect.) Ivory (Available for selection after logging into the application) Favorites The Favorites pane allows you to configure shortcuts for the required modules. The modules selected in the Favorites pane will appear on the Home screen. To set Favorites, perform the following: Log in to the Stores application. The Home screen appears. Tap Hamburger &nbsp;to display the Store application menu. Tap Favorites &nbsp;to select the required shortcuts and add them to the Home screen. The Favorites pane is displayed. Note: All the menu items are displayed on the home screen by default. However, once your favorites are set, only those will be displayed on the screen irrespective of any new item/s being added to the product/user account. In the Favorites pane, select the required modules or tap the Select All button to select all modules. The selected modules appear on the Home screen. Note: De-select the required modules or tap the Deselect All button to remove all the modules in one action. Tap&nbsp;&nbsp;to navigate to the Menu pane. Tap&nbsp;&nbsp;to close the Menu pane. Note: If the Unified Store View is on, the User is replaced with Engagement in both Home and Favorites menu. The options in the Engagement section includes: Activity, Announcements, Lookbooks, and Interactions. Time Clock The time clock on the Home screen allows an associate to clock in. Once clocked in, the associate can take a break or clock out of the store. A store associate should clock in to start&nbsp;work and clock out when leaving for the day. An associate can successfully change the store, once clocked out of the current&nbsp;store. The clocking options are displayed based on the clock status of the employee in the selected store. To Clock In, perform the following steps: Log in to the Stores application. The Home screen appears. Tap Clock In&nbsp;to successfully clock in and to access the menu links. The clocking pop-up displays the User name and the Clocked In time. To Take a break and Back from break, perform the following steps: Note: Break options are available only when retailer tracks breaks. Back from break is available only when the associate is Out on Break. Tap time clock&nbsp;&nbsp; on the home screen to open and view the time clock options. Tap Take break option to initiate the break in the store. The clocking pop-up displays the User name and the Left for Break time. On completion of break, tap the Back from Break option icon. Associate clocks back in and continues with the work. The clocking pop-up displays the User name and the Clocked In At time. To Clock Out, perform the following steps: Tap time clock&nbsp;&nbsp; on the home screen to open and view the time clock options. After completion of work, tap the Clock Out option icon to successfully clock out in the store. The clocking pop-up displays the User name and the Clock In time. Tip: Clock status and options are available on the Hamburger menu too. If the associate is clocked out of the store, clock in option gets displayed. When an associate log in, clock in option is displayed if he is clocked-out in the store. Menu links are hidden, and hamburger menu options are disabled. When the associate is currently clocked-in for the store, if the store track breaks, clock out and take a break, options are displayed. The hamburger menu also has the same options. If the associate is out on break, when logs in again, back from break button will be displayed. Note: When an associate log in, if he is not a must-clock, clock in option is displayed. However, menu links and hamburger menu option links are accessible. Note: When an associate&nbsp;is clocked in for longer than the configured shift time (missed&nbsp;to clock out on the previous day), the UI displays “You are still clocked in". Associate should&nbsp;clock in by selecting a reason code for the exceptional clock-in. In the Store application changing store is possible at any time during the transaction. An associate can work between stores or are staffed in a different store based on the demand. Associates must have the appropriate clock status to change store. Once they change store, the time clock gets updated with respect to new store. Once the user changes store, if the new store uses time clock the status of the associate in the store and the clocking options are displayed. Once the user changes store, if the new store uses time clock and tracks break, based on the status of the user display the break options. And if the new store does not track breaks, options to take a break when the user is clocked in are not displayed. An error message gets displayed when a clocked in associate attempts to change store when a clocked in associate is on a break and attempts to change store Item Attributes Localization The Store app provides the ability to modify and view the item attributes in the different languages to help the instore customer. Once the language is selected by the user the item search result displays item details in the chosen language. Customer can view the item attributes in their preferred language. All the item details on the Item Global Search, Item Details, Catalog, and Cart screens are depicted in the selected language on the Menu. The Item Language drop-down option displays different languages available and these are set up based on the associate ability to understand multiple languages. This drop-down does not show up when user does not have any secondary language set up. When the order is resumed from suspend, the language selection at the hamburger menu must revert to the order language. The item language selector displays the language from the resumed order. Note: The Item Language drop-down gets disabled for further selection until the order is complete. The Item Language selector will display the primary language as default when the user logs in to the application and is the first one in the language list. Store associate can view product information in primary user&nbsp;language while managing inventory and fulfilling orders. Item attributes like Description, department, style, size, color, Item images and UOM can be translated . If translations are available, on View Inventory Look Up, Adjustments, Inventory Search, Picking, Packing, Staging, Sorting and Receiving and cycle counting screens are displayed based on the user’s locale. When a pick or pack task is reassigned from an associate to another, the item attributes should be displayed in assigned user’s language. For example, associate 1 in Spanish language starts picking picklist. Associate 1 reassigns the picklist to Associate 2, who is in a French language. After reassigning the task, the Associate 2 can view all the item attributes in French if the item translation exists. Related Link Global Search Copy/paste from the Store&nbsp;browser UI Retailers can copy text from&nbsp;the Store browser application using the operating system's copy function. This allows store associates to copy data&nbsp;such as fulfillment ID, item description and package ID from the Store application screens. Copy is supported on the portions of the UI where user interactions (such as click, select or slide) do not exist. In order to prevent the copy action from interfering with the primary user actions that store associates routinely perform, copy is available on browser and not on the mobile application.