# UIFace Job Schedules

**Permalink:** uifacade-job-schedules
**Content Length:** 7,789 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:53.214421

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Configurations&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UIFacade ››UIFace Job Schedules UIfacade Job Schedules &nbsp; UIfacade Job SchedulesCreating a Job ScheduleEditing a Job ScheduleDeleting a Job ScheduleField DescriptionAction Buttons This page allows you to create, view, edit and delete UIFacade Jobs which can be scheduled as per the need. This assists further in the automation of product allocation, as the jobs can be scheduled at regular intervals or for a distinct number of times.&nbsp; &nbsp; Creating a Job Schedule &nbsp; To create a new Job Schedule: &nbsp; Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Configurations&nbsp;&gt; UIFacade&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;UIFacade&nbsp;Job Schedules. Click&nbsp;Create Job Schedule&nbsp;to view the&nbsp;Create New Job Schedule&nbsp;window. On the Job Schedule page,&nbsp; select the Job Type from the drop-down, Job Schedule Name, and Cron Expression. Choose Yes or No for Disabled to confirm whether the job should stay paused once created. Click Save and Continue. On the Job Schedule Details page, enter the values for Start Delay (milliseconds), Repeat Interval (milliseconds), and Trigger Key. If you select Yes for Ad Hoc Job, the job will be deleted once it is completed. Enter a value for Time Zone and click Save and Continue. On the Job Parameters page, choose from the given parameters, or click on Add New to add a new parameter. For a new parameter, enter a value for Parameter Name and Parameter Value, then click Submit. Once the parameter is selected, click Save And Finish. Note:&nbsp;All mandatory fields are denoted with *. Editing a Job Schedule &nbsp; To edit a job schedule: &nbsp; Swipe-out List Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Configurations&nbsp;&gt; UIFacade&nbsp;&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;UIFacade&nbsp;Job Schedules. Select the required job record. Swipe-out the menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Edit. In the Job Schedule&nbsp;window, modify the required fields. Click&nbsp;Save&nbsp;to save the modified job details. Edit View Select the required job record card. The action buttons are displayed in the footer section. Click&nbsp;Edit&nbsp;to view the&nbsp;Job Schedule&nbsp;window, modify the required fields. Click&nbsp;Save&nbsp;to save the modified job details. &nbsp; Deleting a Job Schedule &nbsp; Swipe-out List Select&nbsp;Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Configurations&nbsp;&gt; UIFacade&nbsp;&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;UIFacade&nbsp;Job Schedules. Swipe-out menu on the required record card and select&nbsp;Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts as &#39;This action will delete the strategy and any related criteria which are not referenced in other strategies&#39;. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the job. Delete Select the required record card. The footer section with action buttons is displayed. Select&nbsp;Delete. A confirmation pop-up prompts as &#39;This action will delete the strategy and any related criteria which are not referenced in other strategies&#39;. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the job. &nbsp; Field Description Following are the field descriptions of the attributes available on the screen. &nbsp; Field &nbsp; Description &nbsp; Job Type Specifies the type of the job. Job Schedule Name Displays the given name for the job. Cron Expression Represents the cron expression for the scheduler. Disabled Specifies whether the job is paused. Parameter Name Specifies the parameter name. Parameter Value Specifies the parameter value. &nbsp; Action Buttons Following are the action buttons available on the screen. &nbsp; Create Job Schedule Opens the&nbsp;Create New Job Schedule&nbsp;window.&nbsp; Deselect Clears the selected records. Edit Opens the&nbsp;Job Schedule&nbsp;window for editing the selected record. Delete Deletes the selected record. View Opens the Job Schedule window for a detailed view.