# Unallocated Supplies

**Permalink:** unallocated-supplies
**Content Length:** 15,525 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:21.171378

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Allocation ››Unallocated Supplies Unallocated Supplies &nbsp; &nbsp; Unallocated SuppliesFiltersRecalculateModify MethodField Description The unallocated supplies lists the supplies of allocation strategies that are&nbsp; not allocated. You can assign a&nbsp;method for the allocation and recalculate the allocation based on&nbsp; a strategy.&nbsp; &nbsp; Filters Allocation supply can be filtered by the following: Product Attributes such as&nbsp;Product id, Style Id, name, description, Department, Class, Subclass, &nbsp;brand,&nbsp;and vendor. Source Location Attributes&nbsp;such as&nbsp;Location Id, name, region. PO number, source type (on-hand, PO, ASN), source Id, number of packs, pack Id.,&nbsp;estimated delivery week, and season start week. Has Job Error &nbsp; Recalculate You can&nbsp;click Recalculate&nbsp;to revert the changes made to computations based on strategy. &nbsp; Modify Method To modify a method,&nbsp; Click&nbsp;Modify Method. The&nbsp;Method Selection&nbsp;pop-up window displays. You can set the rules and parameters for the allocation method, from the Method drop-down list.&nbsp; Enter Number of Weeks&nbsp;to determine &nbsp;time periods that are&nbsp;used to compute the return value.&nbsp; This will&nbsp;only be used/applied when Method selected is set to &lsquo;Specify when Applied&rsquo;. Select Pack Rounding Method&nbsp;from the following&nbsp;options: Balanced Over allocate Under allocate Enter Holdback %&nbsp;or click&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;to add the percentage number.&nbsp; Select Enforce Min&nbsp;and&nbsp;Max&nbsp;from &#39;Yes&#39; or &#39;No&#39;&nbsp;options. &nbsp;Click Apply&nbsp;to change the method for allocation. &nbsp; Field Description Following are the field description&nbsp;attributes: &nbsp; Field Description Action Buttons Deselect Click this button to clear the selected records. Recalculate Click this button to recalculate based on strategy. The following Action message will be displayed. Click &#39;Yes&#39; to recalculate the applied non-overstock supplies. &nbsp; Modify Method Click this button to open the method selection popup, where the user can change the method for allocation for non -overstock supplies. The following Method Selection window appears. &nbsp; Enter the required field and click Apply. The following action message will be displayed. &nbsp; Click &#39;Yes&#39; to modify method for the applied&nbsp;non-overstock supplies. Bi-weekly projection This component displays the shortage of supplies for the next 12 weeks. Where each cycle denotes 2 weekly stock/shortage status. The bi-weekly projections are selected based on the selected&nbsp;aggregation level from the category level.&nbsp; Note:&nbsp;Bi-weekly projections will be grayed out. Aggregate selection You&nbsp;can select the aggregate level to see the result. This will update the sort component options to show all levels are equal or above the selected level.&nbsp; This icon will display when the supply has had an error in processing. Hover the mouse over this icon to view the text for the error for the supply.&nbsp; On the card, if any child tiles have an error, this icon will display and show the number of tiles (supplies) that have errors in the card. Evaluate Transfers Click&nbsp;Evaluate Transfers button to recalculate the overstock supplies.&nbsp; &nbsp; Note: This button appears only when OVERSTOCK&nbsp;supplies are selected.&nbsp; The Evaluate Transfers section&nbsp;pop-up window displays. Select the required option and click Apply. The following action message will be displayed. Click &#39;Yes&#39; to evaluate transfer for the applied overstock supplies. Delete Click Delete button to delete overstock supplies &nbsp; Note: This button appears only when OVERSTOCK&nbsp;supplies are selected.&nbsp; A warning message will be displayed as below. &nbsp; Click Yes to delete selected overstock supplies. Line Id Displays&nbsp;line id attribute to the tile for the future supplies. Users can identify same items with different ids in same PO/ASN. &nbsp; Note: Line Id will display only for future supplies(PO/ASN)&nbsp;and not for on-Hand. &nbsp;