# Unified Business Planning Console

**Permalink:** unified-business-planning-console
**Content Length:** 17,286 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:12.729402

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process &amp; Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Dashboards ››Unified Business Planning Console Unified Business Planning Console Previous&nbsp;I&nbsp;Next &nbsp; OverviewProcess FlowThe Landing ScreenDrilling Down to Weekly ViewDrilling Down to Weekly View by LocationUIs and EntitiesServicesRelated Articles Overview Companies often struggle to synchronize their supply chain plans with what can be executed on the warehouse floor, and what the distribution center (DC) is capable of shipping.&nbsp; This disconnect can occur with both the warehouse and transportation systems.&nbsp; Existing planning solutions often lack visibility into&nbsp;transportation and labor capacities.&nbsp; Most DCs rely only on forecasts or upcoming orders information&nbsp;within a short-term planning horizon. The Unified Business Planning Console addresses this issue by understanding the DC capabilities from the ground up. For instance, if a promotion plan fails to account for DC limitations, there may be insufficient storage capacity, dock doors, or labor to execute the workload for the day. In such cases, the plan can be adjusted, and the load distributed across prior days. The Unified Business Planning console bridges the gap between the two sides of the supply chain equation: supply chain planning and execution systems. By providing insights from both perspectives, the console enables the creation of more feasible and executable plans.&nbsp;The console displays information that can be utilized by execution systems such as warehouse management, labor management, and transportation systems to potentially identify supply chain constraints. Senior leaders across finance, operations, logistics and planning can focus on critical key performance indicators to ascertain how well the business is running at a macro level, both as of today as well as in the future, up to a full year. &nbsp;From this console, they can see the projected inventory&nbsp;and orders in various units of measure to better estimate their inventory carrying costs, transportation and labor needs - all driven by a single supply chain planning solution. &nbsp; Process Flow &nbsp; The Landing Screen The first screen that a user will see when opening the Unified Business Planning Console helps the user with identifying potential problem areas.&nbsp; The Network Projection view is the landing screen, which visually pinpoints periods&nbsp;when volumes are expected to fluctuate beyond normal ranges.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; At the top of the screen,&nbsp;a set of small&nbsp;widgets displays key performance indicators (KPIs) for the entire&nbsp;network: Network On Hand – The working capital, which is today’s snapshot of net available inventory value across all DCs and stores based on the average purchase price of each item or item location, including committed inventory without orders.&nbsp; Quarantined, holdouts, damaged, transit and reservation in an order are excluded from this number.&nbsp; Purchase Orders - Today’s snapshot of all orders from vendors to DCs and from vendors to stores based on the average purchase price of each item or item location. Transfers and pullbacks are excluded from this number. Sales YTD - The pre-aggregated daily enterprise level sales value that is interfaced from the host system, starting from the beginning of the calendar year until today. Projected Sales (rest of yr) – The sum of demand projections across all stores and DCs for the rest of the year, starting from the current period until the end of the calendar year, based on the selling price of each item or item location.&nbsp; If the current week is a partial week, then this week's sales value will be calculated based on daily demand projections.&nbsp; Projected Orders (4 wks): Inbound - The sum of all daily projected purchase orders and inbound transfers into a DC starting from the last time the PO projection was calculated from the current day until the end of the week, plus three more weeks ahead.&nbsp; Outbound – The sum of all order projections from a DC, which includes DC to store and DC to DC transfers.&nbsp; Note that the DC transfers will be counted twice, once for inbound, and once for outbound.&nbsp; Ecommerce orders and vendor to store orders are excluded from this number. Projected Cases (4 wks): These numbers represent&nbsp;inbound or outbound projected orders, converted into a prespecified unit of measure (UOM), defaulting&nbsp;to “Cases”.&nbsp; Below the KPIs are three network projection&nbsp;charts in full-zoom mode, showing 52 weeks of data: Inventory&nbsp;– Each stacked&nbsp;bar on the chart shows on-hand projection&nbsp;and on-order projection, which is the snapshot of net available inventory value across all DCs and stores based on the average purchase price of each item on&nbsp;the last day of&nbsp;each week in the future.&nbsp; Transportation -&nbsp;The Inbound line represents the sum of projected orders&nbsp;where the destination location is&nbsp;of type&nbsp;DC.&nbsp; The Outbound line represents the sum of projected orders where the source location is of type DC.&nbsp;There are a few&nbsp;units of measure (UOM, e.g., Lbs, CuFt, Orders)&nbsp;that can be selected from the drop-down on this chart, either for weight, volume, or count of projected orders. The UOM&nbsp;selections can be changed from the UI Configuration Parameters, as long as the exact matching UOM is a valid&nbsp;Item Packaging UOM for an order. Labor - Similar to transportation, the inbound line represents the sum of projected orders&nbsp;where the destination location is&nbsp;of type&nbsp;DC.&nbsp; The Outbound line represents the sum of projected orders where the source location is of type DC.&nbsp;There are a few handling units of measure (Pallets, e.g., Pallets, Cases, Eaches)&nbsp;that can be selected from the drop-down on this chart. The UOM&nbsp;selections can be changed from the UI Configuration Parameters, as long as the exact matching UOM is a valid&nbsp;packaging UOM that is applicable to labor tasks in a DC. From this screen, a&nbsp;user can zoom in by selecting a certain period from the chart.&nbsp; This action re-renders the page to show the zoomed-in view of the Network Projections&nbsp;charts on the left panel for only the selected time period and a DC level information on the right panel. &nbsp; &nbsp; Drilling Down to Weekly View Zooming over a range of time brings the user to this view. Top Panel When the user zooms into a week or a range of weeks, the same network widgets remain at the top.&nbsp; Left Panel The three previous charts are displayed for the selected weeks.&nbsp; Clicking on the Reset Zoom button brings the user back to the full-zoom landing screen. Right Panel The right Location Projections panel displays three projection&nbsp;charts by DC&nbsp;for the selected date range: Inventory Chart: Compares projected cost of on-hand&nbsp;vs. on-order inventory by DC. Transportation Chart: Compares projected inbound vs. outbound transportation loads by DC, with the Y-axis&nbsp;showing the same&nbsp;UOM as the left panel transportation chart. Labor Chart: Compares projected inbound vs. outbound labor workload by DC, with the Y-axis&nbsp;showing the same&nbsp;UOM as the left panel labor chart. Table View: The same data as in the charts is displayed in a tabular format for easy reference. Clicking on the Hide Chart button collapses the charts and expands the table below to show more rows of data from more locations. &nbsp; Drilling Down to Weekly View by Location Clicking on a particular location on the table brings the user to this view. Top Panel When the user clicks on a particular location, the same network widgets remain at the top.&nbsp; Left Panel The three previous charts are displayed for the selected weeks. Right Panel The right Location Projections panel displays three tabs, each one has a projection&nbsp;chart&nbsp;for the&nbsp;selected date range and the selected DC: Inventory Chart: Compares projected cost of on-hand&nbsp;vs. on-order inventory. Transportation Chart: Compares projected inbound vs. outbound transportation loads by DC, with the Y-axis&nbsp;showing the same&nbsp;UOM as the left panel transportation chart. Labor Chart: Compares projected inbound vs. outbound labor workload by DC, with the Y-axis&nbsp;showing the same&nbsp;UOM as the left panel labor chart. Below&nbsp;are the other two tabs/charts: &nbsp; &nbsp; Note: The above screenshots are for illustration purposes only and may not reflect the exact rendering of the user interfaces within the application.&nbsp;&nbsp; UIs and Entities The UIs mentioned in this document are listed in the following table,&nbsp;along with information to&nbsp;navigate&nbsp;to the API documentation. UI Name Component Type Seed Data Present? Seed Data Profile Unified Business Planning Console UI-Facade Not an entity No &nbsp; UI Configuration Parameters UI-Facade Configuration Yes &nbsp; EnterpriseDailySales (entity without UI) Demand Metrics Transaction No &nbsp; &nbsp; Services Below are some of the commonly used APIs related to this functionality. Refer to the API documentation for additional details on&nbsp;each service. Service Component enterpriseProjections/search aiui-facade locationProjections/search aiui-facade locationProjectionDetails/search aiui-facade enterpriseDailySales/save ai-demandmetrics enterpriseSalesYTD/search ai-demandmetrics &nbsp; Related Articles &nbsp; Item Location AnalysisInventory ConsoleAllocators Console