# United Kingdom

**Permalink:** unitedkingdom
**Content Length:** 5,787 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:35:57.209498

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Point of Sale&rsaquo;&rsaquo;POS Classic Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;POS Classic Fiscalization and Globalization ››United Kingdom United Kingdom OverviewTax ConfigurationReceipt ConfigurationServices Overview The United Kingdom (UK)&nbsp;is a non-fiscal country i.e. there are no specific laws or other regulations specifically dedicated to fiscalization.&nbsp;Although there are no specific fiscalization requirements, retailers that generate all, or parts of their revenues from POS cash transactions must carefully document all business transactions in order to meet the requirements of the HMRC, &quot;Her Majesty&#39;s Revenue and Customs&quot;.&nbsp;In principle, cash processing systems are subject to the same recording and retention obligations as accounting systems.&nbsp; Language:&nbsp;The official language of the United Kingdom is English, which is spoken by the majority of the population. There is no law requirement that the POS application must be in English and, consequently, no fine or penalty is defined in case it does not, but it is assumed that English should be used and is expected As per the receipts themselves, there is also no language requirement for the validity of any sale of goods contract concluded in the UK. However, best practice shows that in most cases English is used and customers expect to receive receipts in English. The locale can be configured as detailed in the localization configuration guide.&nbsp; Currency:&nbsp;The official currency of the UK is the &quot;Pound&nbsp;sterling&quot;, or in some contexts, the &quot;British Pound&quot;. The symbol for the&nbsp; currency is &quot;&pound;&quot;. The official currency code (ISO currency standard) is &quot;GBP&quot;.&nbsp; The currency denomination can be configured as detailed in the localization configuration guide.&nbsp; Tax Configuration The UK&#39;s taxation is&nbsp;value added tax (VAT) and it represents a consumption tax that is applicable to domestic goods or services&nbsp;that are bought and sold within the UK. Retailers must register for VAT if annual taxable turnover exceeds 85 000 &pound;*. Taxable turnover is defined as all turnover generated by sales that are not VAT exempt. Even turnover on which the VAT rate is zero is classed as taxable turnover. Voluntary VAT registration is also possible. VAT&nbsp;Rates*: VAT rates are categorized into buckets below. Standard 20% Reduced rate: 5 % Zero rate: 0% * The above VAT rates and annual turn over are as of March-2023, which might be subjected to change as per local laws. VAT Tax Configuration:&nbsp;The information about configuring the country&nbsp;as VAT is&nbsp;detailed in the localization configuration guide. Receipt Configuration A receipt is a conclusive document that confirms that payment has been made for a service/goods.&nbsp;The buyer can always request a receipt, but there is no obligation for the buyer to get a receipt.&nbsp;A receipt needs to include: Company information Date and time of issue Total amount paid Unique and sequential numbering VAT breakdown Additionally, best practice is also to include items. All additional information such as pictures, barcodes, QR codes, promotional messages, etc. can be included as there are no legal requirements. Receipt Configuration: Configuring receipts specific for a country&nbsp;is&nbsp;detailed in the localization configuration guide.&nbsp; Services There are no specific services exposed for UK localization.