# Update ETA on Packages - Process

**Permalink:** update-eta-on-packages-process
**Content Length:** 8,366 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:36:26.533383

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Inventory & Fulfillment&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store Inventory Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Receiving&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process ››Update ETA on Packages - Process Update ETA on Packages Process Expected date of arrival (i.e. Estimated delivery date) provided by the carrier is updated on the packages that are in-transit and delivered at a store but not yet received in the store application.&nbsp;The scheduler is configured to get the most current ETA sent by the carrier in the tracking message. For&nbsp;job schedule configuration, refer to&nbsp;Shipping Configuration. Currently the ETA update process is applicable to the parcel carriers mentioned in this document. ETA can be viewed on incoming packages. Refer to&nbsp;Receiving Process&nbsp;guide for details. The scheduler updates the packages if following conditions are met:&nbsp; Package is in &quot;In-transit&quot; status (package status = 3000.000) Package contains a valid tracking number&nbsp; Ship to location is available on the package Package is not delivered yet (package delivery status is null) Note: Once the package is delivered, the scheduler&nbsp;must not update the ETA thereafter.&nbsp; Note: If ETA is already updated on the package and carrier does not send ETA in subsequent tracking message(s), then the previously updated ETA is retained (i.e. it is not replaced with null).&nbsp; Logic to capture ETA from the tracking message from carrier:&nbsp; 1. UPS ETA update when package is in-transit UPS&nbsp;track endpoint is accessed to fetch the estimated delivery date. UPS may provide estimated delivery date information differently on the tracking messages. Below logic is used to capture ETA from UPS tracking response: Package level: If the delivery date is provided on the package in the delivery detail section (/TrackResponse/Shipment/Package/DeliveryDate), then it is fetched;&nbsp;otherwise if&nbsp;the same section contains reschedule delivery date, then it is captured. If UPS changes the date for any reason, then reschedule delivery date is populated.&nbsp; Shipment level: If delivery date is not available at the package level, then it is checked in the delivery detail section at the shipment level&nbsp;(/TrackResponse/Shipment/DeliveryDetail/Type/Code).&nbsp;When the shipment delivery detail section has multiple dates, the first date is selected. ETA update when the package is delivered If the UPS tracking response contains status &quot;Delivered&quot; (type = D) in the Activity section, then the ETA is captured from the delivered activity section for&nbsp;&nbsp;/TrackResponse/Shipment/Package/Activity/Status/type as &quot;D&quot; and ETA is fetched from /TrackResponse/Shipment/Package/Activity/Date. If delivered activity is populated, then even if the UPS response contains the scheduled delivery date at the package and/or shipment level, it is ignored. Note: If estimated delivery date is present in the Ship Response ( applicable to&nbsp;the supported carriers UPS/FEDEX/AGILE), it is updated on the package; or the&nbsp;fulfillment delivery due date is updated as estimated delivery date on the package.&nbsp; 2. FedEx FedEx response sends ETA in one of the three different date fields as mentioned below: Actual Delivery Timestamp : If this field is populated by FedEx, then this is updated as ETA on the package. This is available when the package is delivered. Appointment Delivery Timestamp: If there is any pickup appointment, then this date is sent by FedEx. If this date is sent, then ETA is updated with appointment delivery date. Estimated DeliveryTimestamp: If FedEx sends estimated delivery date, then this is fetched as ETA and updated on the package. 3. Logistyx Logixtyx sends ETA at the time of shipping. Logistyx track response provides ETA upon package delivery, which is the actual delivery date.&nbsp;&nbsp; Custom Carriers :&nbsp;If custom carrier is configured for an implementation, custom components can use available user exits. If the response from the user exits contain estimated delivery date, then ETA will be populated on the packages. ETA Scheduler internally uses Track API of Parcel component and Track API supports custom carriers. Custom carrier should update &quot;estimatedDeliveryDate&quot; field in &quot;trackingDetails&quot; section of parcel track response prior to delivery at the final destination. Once delivered, ETA scheduler will get the estimated delivery date from the &quot;date&quot; specified in the &quot;latestEvent&quot; section of the track response with the code populated as &quot;DELIVERED&quot;. Note: When the package is shipped, estimated delivery date is updated as&nbsp;fulfillment delivery due date, if the value is populated on the fulfillment. This is applicable for&nbsp;the base supported carriers (UPS/FEDEX/AGILE).&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;