# Store - Upgraded App

**Permalink:** upgradedstoreapp
**Content Length:** 4,384 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:39:17.120735

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Administrator Tools&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Store ››Store - Upgraded App Store - Upgraded App OverviewDeployment stepsTroubleshooting Overview As part of our ongoing commitment to enhancing and evolving our Store application, third-party UI libraries used by the application have been upgraded to newer versions. Beginning with the 24.1 market release, new features and non-critical fixes will only be released in upgraded Store application. The legacy Store application will receive only critical fixes until it is discontinued as part of the 24.3 release. Note: Due to this upgrade, there are substantial changes in the HTML DOM (Document Object Model) elements. Any existing automation coverage integrated with the previous version will likely be affected and may require updates. Market Release Legacy Store app (Upgraded) Store app 24.1 Deprecated (critical fixes only) Available 24.2 Deprecated (critical fixes only) Available 24.3 Not available Available Deployment steps Push the upgraded application to your devices. There is no need to uninstall the existing application. The upgraded app is available for all iOS, iPadOS, Android and Windows OS versions that are certified by Manhattan. Note: If any problems are encountered when installing the upgraded app,&nbsp;raise a ticket to the Manhattan Services team. Note: The extension of the upgraded Windows application&nbsp;is changed from .APPX to .MSIX. Windows&nbsp;Power Shell scripts can still be used to install the application.&nbsp; Troubleshooting Issue Troubleshooting Tip For Windows customers, a HTTP 403 error is returned on API calls For Windows, the upgraded application&nbsp;uses a new hostname (origin) value which is&nbsp;sent in each API call header as Origin. If 403 errors are raised on API calls, raise a ticket with the Manhattan Services team to review if the default base value of the &quot;manh.security.cors.allowed-origins&quot; property was overridden in the past. If so, the value &quot;https://manhstoreapp.webview2&quot; must be added to the override property list. Auth URL and Server URLs are blank. This can happen if you have not generated the Webview2 custom app with URLs defined in the custom build process. We encourage this to be done atleast the first time you move from Legacy webview to Webview2. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;