# User Access Control

**Permalink:** user-access-control-2
**Content Length:** 15,663 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:37:46.705210

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process &amp; Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Allocation ››User Access Control User Access Control Previous&nbsp;I&nbsp;Next &nbsp; OverviewUser InteractionProcess FlowConfigurations:How to Create a UserAllocator Assignment and Team AssignmentImplementation FlavorsTroubleshootingRelated Articles Overview The allocators, allocation managers or supervisors, and business administrators are the primary users of the allocation application. Users need to setup a unique allocator ID for each individual. Each user is assigned to one primary organization, and a user can optionally be granted access to child organizations.&nbsp;A user&nbsp;represents a person that interacts with and uses the system, such as a store associate or an allocator. Each user is assigned a role to perform.&nbsp; Types of user are: Admin&nbsp;- Admin is responsible for the overall configuration and management of the tool with user access. Supervisor&nbsp;- Supervisor oversees the overall operation of the system to make sure the process runs smoothly. Supervisors can also be referred to as&nbsp;the Manager. The role&nbsp;of supervisor and admin can be done by one individual.&nbsp; Allocator&nbsp;- Allocator looks after the day-to-day distribution of resources based on strategies and demand. Role -&nbsp;Role&nbsp;is identified as a way to specify permissions to attach and grant resources to multiple users. Example - An allocator role has permission to allocate, review and submit the supply, where the admin/supervisor role has permission to review and approve the supply.&nbsp; Grant -&nbsp;Grant&nbsp;is used to assigning resources to a role. Example - If an allocator has access to a role to create order policy, they are assigned to&nbsp;create&nbsp;order policy resource via a grant. Allocators need access to some components to be accountable for adjusting parameters or configurations. Creating a unique identification allows users to access specific grants associated with supplies and allocation. The supervisor needs to review the allocation and access to approve the allocation. Unique identifications need to be created for the admins/supervisors and the allocators. On creating the allocator ID in the allocation system, users need access control to 4 different components in the allocation system. User item access Allocation strategy Allocation assignment&nbsp; Auto Submit Approval policy User Interaction &nbsp; Process Business Need Resource ID Create or Update Users (Allocators) Allocators need to be created like any other users within an organization. They can be assigned either an Allocator, Manager, or Administrator role (specific grants/ resources to access the UIs). organization::user::admin::otherusers Allocator Assignment An Allocator is assigned to handle a specific Source DC and Item category combination (mandatory). Allocator assignment is used to pick a strategy to allocate supplies for a User/DC/Item category. If there is no Allocator Assignment for a Source DC and there is no default strategy, then the supply remains unallocated. Only one Allocator can be assigned for a specific source and product combination. Approval required or not can also be set. Used for backend processing (Supply, need processing). Doesn&rsquo;t control the UI access. aiui::ai-allocation::menu::allocatorAssignment Allocation Strategy Strategy is linked to source DC and an allocator. This implies that the allocator is responsible for the strategy.&nbsp; Used for backend processing (Supply, need processing). Doesn&rsquo;t control the UI access. aiui::ai-allocation::menu::allocationStrategy Auto Submit Approval Auto Submit rules can be defined for a specific Allocator. Rules can be defined for a set of item attributes or source location or both. Used for backend processing (Supply, need processing). Doesn&rsquo;t control the UI access. aiui::ai-allocation::menu::AutoApprovalPolicy User Item Access Defines the list of Allocators who can access the UIs (Specific Item Access). Provided Allocator has grants to access the UI. Applies to all Source DCs (no restriction). Controls UI access. aiui::item::menu::userItemAccessFilter &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Process Flow &nbsp; &nbsp; Configurations: How to Create a User Users can be created using UI or API: Create/update user using UI: For the user to access the allocation system, user setup is important. Admin/supervisor creates the user ID in the system for each allocator. User id are assigned to allocators and a supervisor. User creation process - Step 1 - Navigate to Manage User ID, click on create new user tab. Step 2 - Select the primary organization and input the user credentials. Step 3 - Input all necessary details related to the user and save. Create User using API: Create Allocators{{url}}/organization/api/organization/user/save{ &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;UserId&quot;: &quot;Allocator_1&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;PrimaryOrgId&quot;: &quot;pfioorg&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;UserName&quot;: &quot;Allocator_1&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;PasswordExpiry&quot;: -1, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;IsActive&quot;: true, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;UserType&quot;: { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;UserTypeId&quot;: &quot;Human&quot; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; }, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;IdentityType&quot;: { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;IdentityTypeId&quot;: &quot;Database&quot; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; }, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;UserTimeZone&quot;: &quot;UTC&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;UserLocale&quot;: { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;LocaleId&quot;: &quot;en&quot; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; }, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;Address&quot;: { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;FirstName&quot;: &quot;John&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;LastName&quot;: &quot;Peters&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;Address1&quot;: &quot;1100&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;Address2&quot;: &quot;Parkway&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;Address3&quot;: &quot;First Floor&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;City&quot;: &quot;Atlanta&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;Email&quot;: &quot;ajohn@manh.com&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;State&quot;: &quot;Georgia&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;PostalCode&quot;: &quot;30339&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;Country&quot;: &quot;US&quot; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; } } &nbsp; Allocator Assignment and Team Assignment Allocator Assignment can be specified using UI or APIs Allocator Assignment using API: &nbsp; Allocation Assignment - Team Assignment{{url}}/ai-allocation/api/ai-allocation/allocatorAssignment/save{ &nbsp; &quot;ProductHierarchyFilter&quot;:&quot;{\&quot;DepartmentId\&quot;:\&quot;d1\&quot;,\&quot;ClassId\&quot;:\&quot;c1\&quot;,\&quot;SubclassId\&quot;:\&quot;sb11\&quot;}&quot;, &nbsp; &quot;ProductHierarchyFilterHash&quot;:&quot;d6846e685c933edae1c5652482ee1f4&quot;, &nbsp; &quot;HierarchyLevel1Value&quot;:&quot;l1234&quot;, &nbsp; &quot;LocationId&quot; : &quot;s2234&quot;, &nbsp; &quot;AllocatorId&quot; : &quot;Sri2234&quot;, &nbsp; &quot;AllocatorTeamAssignment&quot;: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; { &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;LocationHierarchyLevel1Value&quot;: &quot;loc1&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;LocationHierarchyLevel2Value&quot;: &quot;loc1&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;TeamId&quot;: &quot;team2234&quot;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;LocationHierarchyHash&quot;: &quot;loc234&quot; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; } } &nbsp; &nbsp; Implementation Flavors NA &nbsp; Troubleshooting NA &nbsp; Related Articles PlanOverviewAllocation Configuration GuideAllocation Process Flow &nbsp;