# User Interface

**Permalink:** user-interface
**Path:** Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning/UI Help/Common Functions/User Interface
**Content Length:** 26,918 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:09:36.290084

---

Home ››Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning››UI Help››Common Functions ››User Interface User Interface User InterfaceHeaderFiltersSummary BannerContent PaneFooterSaved ViewUser Interface Icons The next generation allocation inventory is designed to enable you to seamlessly track inventory activities of customers for service and products. The user interface details options' such as menu, buttons, navigation, and pagination and facilitates you to work with different filter options, search, sort records, add, update, and delete records. This section provides a snapshot of the User Interface. The User Interface provides an easy-to-use and flexible way to interact with the Allocation system. It allows you to view and manage information of the allocated activities such as orders, picked orders, and priority of the orders. The User Interface has components to help you interact with the application: Note: The different components in the user interface are explained using the Task list page as an example. These components may vary from one page to another. Header Hamburger Menu: Opens the left navigation menu. Filters Filters: Displays the number of filters applied to the list. To know more about the filters. Clear All: Clears all the filters applied to the display list. Summary Banner Dashboard > Tasks: Displays the navigation from the home page (in this case Dashboard) to the selected page. Displays the number of filters applied to the display list. You can collapse the filters pane by clicking on this icon. Select All Rows: Use this to select all the cards displayed in the list page. Total Tasks Displayed: Displays the total number of cards in the display list. Sort the tasks displayed in ascending order based on the sorting option selected. Displays the sorting options selected to sort the display list. Content Pane Use the expand icon to maximize/expand the location card. Footer You can navigate to previous or subsequent pages by using the arrow keys. Saved View Saved views allow users to save the current state of the list page. The state of the page can contain the information below: Filters View Type: Grid/Card Column ordering: Applicable only to grid view Sorting Pagination size Note: Saved View will appear only for Metadata pages. A user can navigate to a List page and create a view. Let's walk through a use case. The user wants to have a view of a product location page. Filter - Shows only  Product-Location View: In a grid view Sorting - The data should be sorted by ascending/descending order of priority Page Size - It should be  25 or 50 or 100 The name field is mandatory and the user can provide the name in a generic manner. The description field is optional. Set as Default - If selected, then whenever the user navigates to the product location page, the user will be shown data as per the above view. Share with Others- If selected, then the view will be available for other users to use, else it will be private to the user. Save New Filter with Applied Settings - If this is selected, then the currently applied filter will be saved as a part of the view. If not selected, then the filter will not be saved. Other changes such as sorting and pagination will be saved whether it is selected or not selected. In this case, the user wants it to be private, not as default and wants to save the filter as a part of view. Users can create multiple views and switch between existing defined views. To do that, the user can click on views and click on the drop-down for "Saved View" and select the views. The views that are defined with "Set as Default" will be shown under "SharedViews". Once the view is selected, the page will be rendered as per the setting of the selected view. User Interface Icons Icon Name Description Help Click to access the product documentation for the application. Refresh Click Refresh to load the page again. Close Filter Click to collapse (close) the filter panel. Menu Click to view the list of user interface screens. Clear All Clears the complete filter selections made. Apply Click to initiate the search based on the filter criteria set. Clear Clears the filter criteria of the selected section. For example, click the Clear button in the Division section to clear the filter criteria selected in this section. Save Filter Save filter pop window is displayed. Sort Ascending Sort the records in ascending order. Sort Descending Sort the records in descending order. Filter Favorite Set a saved filter as a favorite. Expand Click to expand the field sections. Swipe Out Tap to view action buttons for the record cards. Copy Select to make a new record by copying existing information from the record. Edit Select to edit record cards. Delete Select to delete record cards. You can also view: Screen Layout Filters Sorting Sign Out