# User Item Access

**Permalink:** user-item-access
**Content Length:** 6,343 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:55.549730

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Configurations&rsaquo;&rsaquo;User ››User Item Access User Item Access &nbsp; User Item AccessCreating User Item Access&nbsp;Deleting&nbsp;User Item Access&nbsp;Field Description The user item access enables you with the item access filters.&nbsp;The supplies and allocations that are viewed by users are filtered by an item access filter.&nbsp; &nbsp; Note: This page can be accessed by&nbsp;administrators and managers.&nbsp;An item access filter can be assigned to users via user item access. &nbsp; Filters:&nbsp; Item Access Filter Id User Creating User Item Access&nbsp; You can create a user item access filter via a wizard. &nbsp; To create item access filter: Select Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Configurations&nbsp; &gt; User &gt; User Item Access&nbsp; Enter the filter criteria and click Apply. The list pane with records is displayed.&nbsp; Click&nbsp;Create&nbsp;to view the new&nbsp;Create&nbsp;User Item Access&nbsp;wizard.&nbsp; From the&nbsp;User Item Access Definition&nbsp;section, select the&nbsp;Item Access Filter Id from the drop-down list. Select&nbsp;User from the drop-down list. Note: Mandatory fields are denoted with *. Click Save and Finish. The user item access record is created. Deleting&nbsp;User Item Access&nbsp; To delete user item access:&nbsp; Select Menu&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;Configurations&nbsp; &gt; User &gt;&nbsp; User Item Access&nbsp; Enter the filter criteria and click&nbsp;Apply. The user item access records meeting the&nbsp;filter criteria are listed. Note: You can delete a method record either through&nbsp;the Swipe-out board option or the Delete button. Swipe Out Board &nbsp;Select the Swipe-out&nbsp;board option on the required record card and select&nbsp;Delete. A warning message pop-up prompts as&nbsp;&#39;Deletion of User Item Access is irreversible&#39;. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the user item access record. Delete Select the required record.&nbsp;The footer section with action buttons is displayed. A warning message pop-up prompts as&nbsp;&#39;Deletion of User Item Access is irreversible&#39;. Click&nbsp;Yes&nbsp;to delete the user-item access record. Field Description The following are the field description&nbsp;attributes: &nbsp; Field Description Action Buttons Related Links Select the records and click on the Related Links (View Item Access Filter)&nbsp;hyperlink to navigate to the&nbsp;Item Access Filter&nbsp;screen. Item Access Filter details can be quickly accessed from the User Item Access page via the Item Access Filter Id hyperlink. Export &nbsp;Exports the list of user-item access attributes, and the file will be downloaded onto your system. View&nbsp;Export&nbsp;for more information. Select All Rows Selects all the user-item access records. Deselect Clear the selected records. Delete Delete the user-item access records. &nbsp; Note: The user item access page cannot be edited.&nbsp;