# View Configuration

**Permalink:** view-configuration
**Content Length:** 5,003 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:23.717062

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Allocation&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Allocated Supplies&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Allocation Maintenance ››View Configuration &nbsp; &nbsp;Maintenance View Configuration &nbsp; &nbsp;Maintenance View ConfigurationField Description This configuration screen helps the user to view the list of attributes that were used to compute the allocation. Users can aggregate&nbsp;the allocated qualities to the stores through a specified list of location attributes. &nbsp; Field Description Field Description Columns The list of product attributes that the user can use to identify individual products in a pack that&#39;s being allocated. The following columns are available: 1)&nbsp; Multi Product Pre-Pack 2) Singe Product Pre-Pack 3) Single Product 4) Single Product - View All Set as Default&nbsp; Yes or No The following options are available: 1) Yes - If you select Yes,&nbsp;then&nbsp;the view definition is saved as the user&#39;s preferences. 2) No -&nbsp; &nbsp;If you select No, then the view definition is not saved as the user&#39;s preference. Users&nbsp;can select a separate default for each version of the allocation maintenance. Available Aggregation The list of location level attributes that can be used to summarize per store values. Select the attributes available in&nbsp;Available Aggregations&nbsp;and&nbsp;drag and drop the attributes to the&nbsp;Selected Aggregations&nbsp;attributes list. &nbsp; The available aggregation are, 1)&nbsp;District 2) Store Size 3)&nbsp;Climate 4) City 5)&nbsp;County 6) State 7) Region 8)&nbsp; Grade 9) Country &nbsp; Available Attributes The list of attributes from the allocation result that the user can view to understand the allocation. Select the attributes available in&nbsp;Available Attributes&nbsp;and&nbsp;drag and drop the attributes to the&nbsp;Selected Attributes&nbsp;attributes list. &nbsp; The available attributes are, 1) Enforce Min 2) Enforce Max 3) On Hand 4) On Order 5) Need 6) RAQ 7) Method 8) Min 9) Max 10) Inv.Pos 11) Omni.Adj 12)&nbsp; No. Of Weeks 13)&nbsp; Pack Round Method 14)&nbsp;Days of Supply 15) EST. (Estimated) Sell thru 16) Over Allocation 17) Under Allocation 18) Need Adj. 19)&nbsp;Channel 20) Team