# View Metrics

**Permalink:** view-metrics
**Content Length:** 7,980 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:38:25.301849

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Supply Chain Planning&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Allocation&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Allocated Supplies&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Allocation Maintenance ››View Metrics View Metrics &nbsp; View MetricsField Description The View Metrics page allows you to view the allocation results, such as the summary of the allocation geographically and through graphical representation.&nbsp; &nbsp; You&nbsp;can also perform the following: View historical and future KPI values for the selected style or a product. Select KPIs for reviewing historical and future values. Model KPI values for selected styles. Define the time horizon for displaying the KPI values (both for historical as well as future). View location contribution for the styles for the allocated locations. View color-size contribution for each combination of a respective style. &nbsp; Field Description Field Description Product&nbsp; The name of the product ID. Location&nbsp; Aggregation The description of the location aggregation ID. Supply The name of the product supply. Time Series Metric section History Select the required historical KPIs values from the following&nbsp;dropdown list. 1 Month 3 Months 6 Months 1 year 2 years 3 Years For example,&nbsp; two &nbsp;months of history and six&nbsp;months of future values Future Select the required future KPIs values from the following dropdown list. 1 Month 3 Months 6 Months 1 year For example,&nbsp; two months of history and six months of future values Save As Default Click this button&nbsp;to save the current settings of drop-downs, checkboxes, and&nbsp;option buttons as default. When they visit the same screen next time, users can view the default values of drop-downs, checkboxes, and option buttons that are automatically applied. Each user can independently save their defaults, and one user saving default does not impact another. Current Contribution &nbsp; By Locations: Displays a bubble chart for the selected KPI for the locations in a&nbsp;selected allocation.&nbsp; &nbsp; For instance, &nbsp; View Helps you configure the set of locations, from the list of locations, such as the top 10&nbsp;or top 50 locations. You can select the required stores&nbsp;from the drop-down list. Allocation Metrics Select allocation metrics from the following drop-down list. Allocate Inv.Pos Need On Hand On Order Required Allocation Quantities Suggested Allocation Quantities &nbsp; &nbsp; BY SIZE AND COLOR Displays a&nbsp;chart for the contribution of color-size combination for a&nbsp;selected style at selected locations. For instance, &nbsp; View By Select the required option either size or color. &nbsp; Allocation Metrics Select allocation metrics from the following drop-down list. Allocate Inv.Pos Need On Hand On Order Required Allocation Quantities Suggested Allocation Quantities &nbsp; &nbsp;