# View Case Details

**Permalink:** viewcase
**Content Length:** 6,807 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:35:09.784446

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Customer Engagement&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Case ››View Case Details Viewing Case Details View Case Details enables you to view the case details that are linked to objects such as orders, returns, shipments, history of interactions with the customer, and internal note by other CSRs.&nbsp; The Archival feature in Customer Engagement enables you to archive cases and its related interactions. The archival process removes cases from the active database and adds it to the archived storage. Refer Customer Engagement Archive and&nbsp;Purge for more details.&nbsp; To view an existing case, perform the following steps: In the left quick access pane, click Cases (). In the Case List page, you can view the archived or active cases by selecting the corresponding option from the State drop-down. In addition to state filter, ensure that you enter at least one more filter criteria to view the cases. If you do not select at least one more filter criteria, &quot;Select and Apply a Filter to View Cases&quot; message will be&nbsp;displayed. After entering the filter criteria, you can perform the following actions: Click Apply to apply the filter criteria to search for a case. Click Clear to clear the filter. Click Save As to save the filter To extend the range of filter criteria, click More and enable more search fields. Based on the search criteria, the list of cases will be displayed. Select the check box against the case that you want to view, and then click View Case Details. You can view the details of the customer associated with the case, customer interactions, case and order details, and so on. In the Case Timeline section, you can add a new note and edit the existing note based on the conversation with the customer. You can also send emails and reply to the customer. Note: CSRs can add and&nbsp;edit&nbsp;notes only if they have the corresponding permissions. They&nbsp;will not be able to see the Send and Reply buttons if they do not have the required permissions/grants. Refer to UI Resources&nbsp;for more details on grants. To add a new note, perform the following steps: In the Add Note text box, enter the note. Click Save to save the notes. The note will now be available in the case timeline along with the other interactions.&nbsp; The name of the user and the time when the note is added is displayed. By default, the first name and the last name of the user is displayed. However, if the name of the user is not available, the user ID is displayed.&nbsp; To edit an existing note in the timeline, perform the following steps: Select the note you want to edit and click Edit to open the existing note in edit mode. Make the necessary changes and click Save to save the changes.&nbsp; The name of the user and the time when the note is edited is displayed. By default, the first name and the last name of the user is displayed. However, if the name of the user is not available, the user id is displayed.&nbsp; To send an email&nbsp;to the customer, perform the following steps: In the case timeline, select Send Email. In the Compose Email dialog box, enter the&nbsp;To Address, Subject, and the email message, and then click Send. To reply to an email, perform the following steps: Select the case for which you want to Reply. In the Email dialog box, enter the email message, and then click Send. In the Case Details section, click Edit to edit the details&nbsp;of the case. Modify the case details, if required. The header section will display &#39;Last modified by&#39; indicating who most recently modified this case and when. Click Save to save the changes.