# Activate/Rebuild/Deactivate

**Permalink:** view-activation-and-rebuilds
**Content Length:** 7,078 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:33:31.725591

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Process & Configuration Guides&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Enterprise Inventory&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Available to Commerce ››Activate/Rebuild/Deactivate View Activation and Rebuilds Previous | Next &nbsp; In this section let&#39;s understand how different view configuration can be activated for different seasons and also why rebuild is necessary OverviewActivateRebuildDeactivateImplementation FlavorsWhen supply is bridged in (for the first time), should ATC view be activated before Supply import?Related Articles Overview At any given time, a Commerce View can have a single active configuration. If the configuration is active, then the supply to availability relationship is maintained. This means that new supply events update the availability for the active configuration. However, when the configuration is inactive, the supply to availability relationship is not maintained. After the point of deactivation, any subsequent inventory events do not update your availability (i.e. the availability picture goes &quot;stale&quot;). Active configurations cannot be modified, as the rules defined in the active configuration are being used to maintain the current commerce availability picture. Therefore a new configuration needs to be created for any changes to the availability rules (because of seasonality, promotions etc.). The new configuration will be in &quot;In-active&quot; status and have to be activated at the time of availability rule switch. Existing configuration will remain active till the new configuration becomes active. This ensures there would be no downtime to make any changes to the availability rule. The following actions can be performed for an Availability View. Refer to the View actions - UI Help&nbsp;for more details on how and where to invoke these view actions. Activate Activation is the process of enabling the availability picture for a view. System applies the availability rules based on the configuration which is activated and computes the availability for the View. Availability details can also be optionally published when the view becomes active. At any given time, a commerce view can have only one active configuration. Views can be activated from the Availability to Commerce UI. Rebuild If the integrity of the commerce view data compared to the perpetual or segmented inventory seems lost then entire commerce view can be rebuild from scratch. Rebuilding an existing commerce view ensures data integrity and consistency. Rebuild action may update existing commerce inventory data or create new data. The commerce view is rebuilt based on the existing active configuration. Rebuild works similar to Activation, in which all enterprise inventory is reconsidered for the Commerce View, and the availability picture is rebuilt. Rebuild can be triggered from the Availability to Commerce UI or can be scheduled to run at regular intervals by configuring Schedule job - &quot;buildViewJob&quot;. Note: Rebuild and activation are both performance intensive processes. But during these processes, System still ensures the availability and in the interim when these processes are running - system ensures the triggers (which updates/recomputes availability) updates the availability. Deactivate View can be deactivated if it needs to be made inactive temporarily for certain business requirement changes, or no longer plan to be used. Active configuration is automatically deactivated when a new configuration is activated for the view. On deactivation, any subsequent triggers, which updates/recomputes availability will not update the availability status.&nbsp; Implementation Flavors When supply is bridged in (for the first time), should ATC view be activated before Supply import? Considering performance, it is recommended to activate ATC view post bridging in the supply (for the first time). ATC view can be in active state for subsequent supply import. Related Articles Availability StatisticsOverviewPublish AvailabilityREST APIs and User ExitsHow is Availability Computed?Troubleshooting