# Fulfillment Optimization Visualization

**Permalink:** visualization
**Content Length:** 15,297 characters
**Scraped:** 2025-08-09T22:34:46.468754

---

Home &rsaquo;&rsaquo;Manhattan Active® Omni&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Management&rsaquo;&rsaquo;UI Help&rsaquo;&rsaquo;Order Processing ››Fulfillment Optimization Visualization Fulfillment Optimization Visualization Overview The Fulfillment Optimization Analytics UI displays multiple visualizations that provide an up-to-date snapshot of various order metrics. The visualization data is populated based on data retrieved by these jobs: Inventory component: JobscheduleId: LocationAnalyticsReportsJob JobTypeId: locationAnalyticsJob Order component: jobScheduleId: orderReportsJob JobTypeId: orderReportsJob Promising component: jobscheduleId: promisingReportsJobloc2 jobTypeId: promisingReportsJob Whenever the page is refreshed, MAO makes a search API call to retrieve the most up-to-date data. OverviewOrder Volume and Shipment VolumeClick to ShipAverage Shipping CostTotal Orders by Shipping Cost MarginTotal Fulfillment Capacity by RegionOptimization Factors BreakdownFacility Group Performance Results &nbsp; Order Volume and Shipment Volume This visualization displays the daily order volume and shipment volume over the past two weeks. When you hover over a specific date, a pop-up displays the Shipment Volume and Order Volume of that particular day. The raw data for this visualization is retrieved using the below API: POST {{url}}/omnifacade/api/orderanalytics/order/shipmentVolumeAnalytics/search &nbsp; Click to Ship This visualization displays the daily average click-to-ship time for all orders shipped in the past week. Click to Ship time is the time between order creation and shipped date. When the value for a given day is below the yearly average, the bar appears in blue and &quot;falls&quot; below the average line to the appropriate y-axis level. When the value for a given day is higher than the yearly average, the bar appears in red, and &quot;rises&quot; above the average line to the appropriate y-axis level. When you hover over one bar, the average click-to-ship days are displayed for that particular day. The raw data for this visualization is retrieved using the below API: POST {{url}}/omnifacade/api/ordervisuals/order/clickToShipAnalytics/search &nbsp; Average Shipping Cost This visualization displays the previous day&rsquo;s average shipping costs per shipment volume. The x-axis represents the number of shipments per order. Any order with more than 10 shipments is grouped in the &quot;10+&quot; column. The y-axis represents the average shipment cost for a particular shipping volume. The size of the bubble represents the relative number of orders with that number of shipments, relative to the other bubbles. Hovering over a bubble displays a popup with the shipment size, number of orders, total shipping cost, and average cost deviation from the overall average cost for the day. The raw data for this visualization is retrieved using the below API: POST {{url}}/omnifacade/api/orderanalytics/promising/shippingCostAnalytics/search &nbsp; Total Orders by Shipping Cost Margin This visualization is a histogram that displays the difference between the customer charged shipping cost and the estimated shipping cost that MAO calculates during promising.The x-axis of the histogram represents the Shipping Cost Margin: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Shipping Cost Margin =&nbsp; Customer Charged shipping cost - Estimated shipping cost Results can be positive (profit) or negative (loss). The results are grouped into buckets of 5 dollars (apart from the lower bucket which captures everything below -$15 and top bucket which captures everything above $15. The height of the center of a given bubble represents the total number of orders in that Shipping Cost Margin bucket. Hovering over a bubble reveals a popup that displays the total number of orders and the total shipping cost margin of all orders represented in that bubble. The diameter of the bubble represents the total shipping cost margin relative to the other bubbles. Note: The customer charged shipping cost is retrieved from the order component and the estimated shipping cost is retrieved from promising. If the customer charged shipping cost is not persisted in the order, then this visualization will not be accurate. Likewise, if carrier shipping rates are not configured in MAO, this visualization will not be accurate. The raw data for this visualization is retrieved using the below API: POST {{url}}/omnifacade/api/ordervisuals/order/shippingCostMarginAnalytics/search &nbsp; &nbsp; Total Fulfillment Capacity by Region This visualization displays the average Total Capacity Utilized per region for the previous day. When you hover over a bubble, the region name is displayed. The raw data for this visualization is retrieved using the below API: POST {{url}}/omnifacade/api/ordervisuals/inventory/fulfillmentUtilByState/search &nbsp; Optimization Factors Breakdown This visualization displays the Fulfillment Optimization cost data for the previous business day. Each optimization factor is shown with its total cost contribution. Keep in mind some factors are hard costs while some factors are soft costs: Hard Costs Soft Costs Shipping Cost Capacity Costs Labor Cost Inventory Level Cost Price Margin Shipping Proximity Cost &nbsp; Location Performance Cost &nbsp; The raw data for this visualization is retrieved using the below API: {{url}}/omnifacade/api/ordervisuals/promising/factorCostBreakdownAnalytics/search &nbsp; Facility Group Performance Results Shows location group data for the previous business day. For each location group, the following information is presented: Click to Ship: The average click to ship time for the location group, the deviation from the network-wide average, and the min and max click-to-ship times. Aging Orders: This shows a snapshot of the count of orders that are less than one day old and more than one day old. Rejection Rate: This shows the average rejection rate across the group, the deviation from the network-wide average, and the min and max rejection rates. Fulfillment Capacity Utilization: This shows the average utilization across the group, the deviation from the network-wide average, and the min and max utilizations. Fulfillment Capacity Breakdown: This lists the five most and least utilized locations. Data for this visualization is retrieved using the below API: GET {{url}}/omnifacade/api/omnifacade/orderVisuals/networkAnalytics/storeGroupGridGraph &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;